My base case is that the president
really likes tariffs. We are in for a
much higher US tariff regime. There's a
lot of uncertainty out there in terms of
the effects of tariffs.
The only constant here is change. I
don't necessarily think that August 1st
is necessarily a hard date.
This is the endgame. We'll certainly see
more certainty. We've accepted the fact
that tariffs are here to stay. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, the Fed under siege.
We have inflation now totally under
control. We have a Fed chairman that if
he was doing his job properly would
lower interest rates. But you want to
see a rocket ship? Uh, we should we
should have the lowest interest rates
because without us there there's
nothing.
President Donald Trump once again laying
into Fed chair JP Pal as FC officials
remain divided on the impact of higher
trade tariffs. The White House threatens
to impose 50% levies on Brazilian goods,
muddying the picture heading into August
1.
Perfectly framed at a time when we've
been struggling to understand exactly
what the objective is for the trade war.
This particular levy is confusing to
people who understood this within the
rubric of some sort of surplus versus
deficit. Last year, the United States
had a trade surplus with Brazil. This
has to do with politics. So, all of a
sudden, you have to understand the
modern trade war within the rubric of
potential deficit, potential income, and
now a potential political preference.
And the idea now is that potentially
this is going to persist based off the
whim on the president for other issues,
not when it comes to the trade deficit.
When they invoked AIPA on April 2nd
through an executive order, it was
because they declared trade deficits and
what you're dealing with in terms of
trade partners that have that the United
States has this deficit with as a
national emergency. Well, now they're
saying this has to do with political
issues that the president of United
States does not like that's happening in
Brazil. So, who is going to be next? And
do they need to issue another executive
order for this? Because what's the legal
authority?
We're not getting rate cuts anytime
soon. We are getting higher tariffs.
maybe as soon as August 1. And this
market doesn't care. You've said this a
few times. This market is not the
economy. I'd go one step further. This
market is not the goods economy. And you
can see that based on some of the
headlines we've had in only the last 24
hours. Nvidia $4 trillion market cap.
Overnight revenue from Taiwan semi
better than anticipated 39% gain in the
June quarter. And I've said this a few
times in the last day as well, the last
week. Meta's Mark Zuckerberg is paying
people hundreds of millions of dollars.
That guy does not care about trade
tariffs. this market doesn't seem to
either
ultimately this is the new tool for
discovery for exploration and domination
and ultimately this is not a tariff
sensitive area and that is what we are
learning with the AI trend really
driving the returns it really goes to
the question how much signal do you get
from equity markets right now about the
health of an economy when it is driven
by the $4 trillion Nvidia that it hit
briefly yesterday it exceeds German's
total market capitalization by almost a
trillion It is a nation state unto
itself and it is the driver at a time
where this is the technology that a lot
of people say will be more revolutionary
than even electricity. They're not
worried about what's going on in the
tariff situation. They're not worried
about more potential export controls
coming out of this administration. And
then you look at the Fed minutes that
say they point to quote considerable
uncertainty about the timing, size, and
duration of the tariffs potential
effects on inflation. What does the Fed
do when you have things like 50% on
copper, 50% on Brazil, and you're unsure
what what it's anchored to legally? They
just have to sit and wait at minimum
till August 1st. But how much of these
deadlines just get pushed down the
timeline?
This Fed is incredibly divided. You
could see it in the minutes yesterday.
We've got 10 saying two cuts, seven
saying none, and two pushing for
something as soon as July. I think we
know who those two officials are.
Yeah, say Bowman and Waller without
saying Bowman and Waller. A couple of
participants noted that if the evol data
evolve in line with their expectations,
they would be open to considering a
reduction in the target range for the
policy rate as soon as, get this, the
next meeting. And we know who these
people are. There also is a growing
sense that maybe we are already close to
neutral. In other words, the Fed
wouldn't have to cut that much to get to
where it would be not restrictive nor
easy for the overall economy. That's
pretty profound at a time where a lot of
people are wondering how much heat's
left in the inflation story and in this
economy.
In the meantime, equities doing okay.
We're down by about a tenth of 1% on the
S&P 500. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Marvin Low of State Street
with stocks just shy of all-time highs.
The EU's top foreign affairs official on
the status of trade negotiations and
Meghna Maharesi of Skiff reacting to
earnings from Delta in about 25 minutes
time. We begin this hour with stocks
lower as traders digest the latest trade
developments. Marvin Low of State Street
writing the following. While continued
gains into the fall will need an almost
perfect execution of continued
disinflation, stable employment, and a
positive business response to the tax
bill, we think there is scope for
further gains through earning season.
Marvin joins us now for more. Marvin,
good morning.
Good morning.
How dependent are we on rate cuts, if at
all, from this Federal Reserve?
You know what? Um, I don't think that,
uh, from a risk perspective, we're
reliant on it now. We have to feel that
rate cuts are still the most natural way
rates are going to go. Um we're not
talking hikes, you know, that that's a
big difference, but the timing of it has
always been fluid. Um uh at this point,
the market expects exactly what the said
the Fed is saying um to by the end of
the year, but the Fed is also saying
they don't know either. So the market
is, you know, if you will, absorbing
that and rolling with it.
You say the market, let's identify which
market. Toss lock of Apollo came out
early this week and said look at bonds
and look at equities and said bonds are
pricing in rate cuts and a growth slow
down. Equities are pricing in better
growth particularly through 2026. Is
that a difference that's straightforward
to explain this morning?
Yeah, you know what? I the markets are
an incredible discounting mechanism, but
sometimes the amount of information it
can discount gets cloudy and I think
right now um equities and risk are
discounting the here and now. What they
know um and what we know is that the
world is nowhere near as bad as we
thought it was going to be 3 months ago.
Um, and there's been been a bit of
catchup and we also know that
information coming out of the
administration is as frenic as it ever
is. So, we'll grab hold of what we know.
When we kind of talk about equities at
kind of this all-time high, you
mentioned it. It's very, very narrow.
It's based on things that we know. It's
the companies that um do have the
margins that have the revenues and have
a business model that has uh an appeal,
if you will, in a world where you have
to invest in something. Other assets
however whether it's on the equity side
of things and or the fixed income and
currency side of things are saying that
it's much cloudier. So um the messages
are not necessarily consistent but
they're also not looking at the same
things always.
The Fed members are assumed to be
battling over this sort of uh tension
whether growth is slowing down or
inflation could potentially be speeding
up and that's the cloudiness that you
see sort of baked into the uh fixed
income market. Which do you think is
ultimately going to win out if you look
at the tea leaves under the hood?
Yeah, I mean I think I think inflate
we've learned that they they policy
makers whomever need to have a clear
message on inflation. It is um once it
gets into an economy it affects um
everyone in a way that's very very hard
to control. Um the growth side of things
certainly is something that you have to
watch but you know we are back to
looking at inflation as the most
important aspect particularly after the
jobs report which show that things are
okay
and you see think that actually you're
going to see some sort of acceleration
in inflation and we're going to see that
come through a little bit in the CPI
report next Tuesday and then beyond uh
to continue to see that. I just wonder
if the Fed does cut rates how high do
you see tenyear yields going at a time
where a lot of people are gleaning
comfort from yesterday's auction that
went pretty well. Yeah, I mean I'm still
in the camp that uh we get a steepening
curve. Um you know, not necessarily just
from uh the discussion about the short
end. Um but there is a lot of
inflationary pressure that is coming out
of this administration, whether it's
from the deficit perspective aspect,
whether it's from, you know, potentially
being um too aggressive on rate cuts,
which certainly would be reflected in
that term premium. Um and then and then
there's the ongoing uh immigration
discussion which made its way into the
minutes also in terms of uncertainty in
the jobs market. All of that is the um
parts of the crystal ball that are very
very cloudy for the Fed as it is for the
market and they're just sitting tight
for it.
We might see the administration punt
when it comes to these tariff deadlines.
Can the Fed cut amidst a trade war?
I don't think so. I don't think so.
Particularly given how um you know
frenic the process has been. um if if in
fact we get to a point where um you know
10% if you will is announced I think
that that's kind of what the base case
in the market is um and you get comfort
that that's where it ends. Yeah. Then
it's it's it's a clearer kind of
environment. Um but I I wouldn't expect
political uncertainty to get much
better.
If that is the analysis then how could
the Fed cut at all? because the
president is using Brazil yesterday
based off political reasons, not even
because of using it based off the trade
deficit while he used all these others
on April second.
Yeah, that I mean that does that's the
persistence aspect of um uh of the
concerns that the FOMC started to to
raise amongst a much broader category
rather than just the few that were
talking about uh a July cut if you will.
Um and and that really does keep them on
the sidelines.
Lacy, you mentioned some of the bond
auctions. Tenure went pretty well just
yesterday. 30-year auction coming up
later this afternoon. Yeah, we got $22
billion of 30-year bonds being sold at a
time where the steepening yield curve is
definitely an issue. Marvin, in your
notes, you said that you see 10-year
yields at 5%.
Can you talk about what that does to the
overall risk adjusted returns across the
spectrum and whether that challenges
some of the rally that we've seen?
Um, you know what? I think that to a
certain degree this narrowness in the
rally that we're seeing again with with
these mega caps that have a lot of cash
that really don't need to rely on the on
the on the bond market and are so if you
if you use the discount dividend model
or uh or any kind of discounting
mechanism all of their revenues are so
uh all of the if you will terminal value
is so far out that that discount rate
doesn't matter as much particularly is
if it's in flux. Um there are aspects of
the um of industry groups that are much
more reliant on it however and I think
that we are seeing kind of that nuanced
approach in terms of again what we know
now versus what we're uncertain about.
The good news I guess overnight for the
Treasury came from Tokyo 20-year bond
supply out of Japan went okay. I stress
okay not tremendously well but went okay
which is good enough.
People saw that as a potential risk
asset considering the fact that 30-year
bonds over in Japan have been driving
some of the volatility that we've seen.
If you take a step back, how much of
this is just expectations that were very
very low and crossing a very low bar?
And how much is this uh something that
really highlights how much treasuries
across the world are adjusting to this
by not issuing as much of the debt and
actually helping really ease some of the
tensions at these auctions
on yours this morning just a little bit
higher higher by two basis points on a
10-year 435. Additional supply coming
later the 30-year about 490. Marvin,
good to see you as always. Move and low
there of stage street on an equity
market that's very close to all-time
highs in a bond market where he's still
looking for 5% along the yield curve.
Let's give an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Lizzie Burton. Hey Lizzie.
Hey John. President Trump says the US
will begin levying a 50% tariff on
copper imports on August 1st. After the
announcement Trump took to Truth Social,
posting this 50% tariff will reverse the
Biden administration's thoughtless
behavior and stupidity. Trump said
America will once again build a dominant
copper industry. And Meta poached the
head of Apple's AI models team. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg that he was
lured over with a pay package worth over
$200 million that will be stretched over
several years. The compensation is in
line with other major hires for Meta's
new super intelligence team, which is
focused on building AI systems that can
complete tasks as well as or better than
humans. and Kellogg shares rallying
after the Wall Street Journal reported
that the Italian candy maker Ferrero is
nearing a $3 billion deal to buy the
breakfast cereal conglomerate. The Froot
Loop maker has a market value of about
$1.5 billion and more than $500 million
in debt. The deal could be finalized as
early as this week. That should be my
brief, John.
Hey Lizzy, thank you. More from Lizzy in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, President Trump setting higher
levies.
Sir, can you explain how you calculated
your latest round of tariffs? Was there
a formula that was used?
The um formula was a formula based on
common sense, based on deficits, based
on uh how we've been treated over the
years and based on raw numbers.
Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with the EU's top foreign affairs
official in just a moment, plus the
latest from the capital with Tyler
Kendall live from New York City this
morning. Good morning. Here's
[Music]
your day ahead, your morning so far. 15
minutes away. We kick off earning season
with Delta Airlines 6:30 Eastern time.
So, look out for that later on this
morning. 8:30 2 hours after that we'll
get jobless claims and then this
afternoon 30-year bonds coming to market
$22 billion worth as Lisa pointed out
the 10-year auction yesterday pretty
decent that snapped a run of higher
yields for five consecutive days yields
this morning back higher again though of
two basis points at the long end of the
curve on a 10-year about 435 on 30s
let's call it 490 and the savas this
morning President Trump setting higher
levies
sir can you explain how you calculated
your latest round of tariffs. Was there
a formula that was used?
The um formula was a formula based on
common sense, based on deficits, based
on uh how we've been treated over the
years, and based on raw numbers. Brazil,
as an example, has been uh not good to
us, not good at all. But they're based
on very uh very substantial facts and
also past history.
Here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump confirming an
August 1st start date for tariffs on
copper. Trump also taking game at Brazil
with a potential levy of 50%. Joining us
now from the nation's capital in
Washington is Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall.
Tyler, Brazil, this is the question a
lot of people are asking. How are they
justifying that 50% levy?
Yeah. Hey John, good morning. Well, it
is worth pointing out that the US
actually ran a $5.5 billion trade
surplus with Brazil last year, which
means that this doesn't fall into that
category or that legal basis that the
administration has been arguing that
they are enacting these tariffs on the
idea that there has been persistent
trade imbalances and deficits that have
hurt US interests. Instead, President
Trump has linked this to political
concerns in an ongoing trial of the
former Brazilian President Balsinaro, as
well as allegations by President Trump
that the Brazilian government is
censoring US social media platforms.
Now, in a post last night, we heard from
Brazil's current president Lula, who
defended his government's actions when
it does come to US digital platforms
operating in the country, as well as
said that any unilateral tariff freight
imposed by the United States would be
meant by their own country's reciprocity
law. We have to give the context here
that the US is the second largest
trading partner for Brazil, only behind
China. And analysts tell us that a 50%
tariff would essentially make trade
unfeasible between the two countries. So
there are really big impacts here on the
line. But at the moment it's unclear how
the administration would justify this on
a legal basis since we've seen IPA
imposed for example based off this idea
that there have been these persistent
trade imbalances.
Tyler with the latest down in
Washington. Tyler Kendall thank you.
Lisa I think you asked about 15 minutes
ago politics or economics? How do you
justify it?
And this is going to ultimately come
down to how much is trade being used as
a tool to negotiate certain political
outcomes. This has to do with Bolsiniro
Hayer Bolsiniro who did officially lose
in the last election and President Trump
has drawn parallels between his plight
and some of Bolsiniro's and has talked
about the discussion around criminal
investigation and trying to withdraw
that.
The lines are being blurred to try to
understand why they continuously use
tariffs and trade as the first tool in
the toolbox when they have a grievance
with a country. When you look at copper,
the president is talking about national
security concerns. And I think a lot of
people can get on board with that. In
the same day, he's going after Brazil,
which goes against the executive order
about why they were going after
countries when it comes to trade
deficits and that using AIPA. That was
their stance legally. Now they're just
doing it for domestic politics in
another country. And this is where I
think it's going to be very concerning
for a lot of Republicans in Congress. So
that August one deadline only a few
weeks away and countries are racing to
try and strike deals. Joining us now
pleased to say is Bloomberg's Minman Lo
from Koala Lumpa. Minman, good morning.
Good morning. Yes, I'm here at the AEAN
summit and it's a big day because the
AEAN foreign ministers are meeting with
many key dialogue partners including the
envoys from Korea, Japan, China, the US
and of course the EU as well. And
joining me here is the EU's top diplomat
Kayak Kalas. Thank you so much for
making time. So tariffs have been
looming very large over this entire
summit. The EU hasn't yet received that
letter from Trump. What is your team
expecting to see where that letter
comes? Any specific carveouts in
particular that you're expecting to have
achieved? Well uh of course our trade
team is working very hard uh to to get
uh good agreement but at the same time
we are also working with other countries
like here in Southeast Asia or in the
world to have uh trade deals and trade
agree agreements to diversify our trade
portfolios.
Okay. So the Chinese foreign minister
Wangi is here as well. Are you going to
meet him to maybe stabilize relations a
little bit because it seems like the EU
China uh summit might be partially
derailed from what we have reported
before. Uh well um we had a good meeting
uh in in Brussels with uh my counterpart
and uh and we are discussing it's the
same format that we had had in 2023 the
summit then and uh and it's important uh
the substance what are we discussing
but you're cutting it short and you're
you're not bringing any additional
business. No, there was there was no uh
no uh you know plan that was that was
the question um that uh that actually
wasn't clear how um China wants to hold
this summit and now we know that it's
it's one day and and what kind of
meetings we have and and what
discussions we have. What is your
response to China's assertion that the
EU's public procurement has been unfair
that the EU does have its own immense
subsidies for its uh manufacturers and
producers as well. Is there a double
standard being applied?
No. Well, our subsidies are in
accordance with the WTO rules. So, so
this is very very clear. We want a level
playing field. We are very worried about
the economic coercion of China and we
are also worried about their enabling
Russia's war in Ukraine. So these are
the two big issues we have.
Let's talk about Gaza because President
Trump said that a ceasefire could be in
sight this week or next week. What do
you envision as the EU's role in
supporting that ceasefire? Well, we have
been working very hard since the last
foreign affairs council that we had in
Brussels with the Israelis to really
improve the situation on the ground with
the humanitarian aid uh for the people
so that the situation would be better.
We achieved uh an agreement on very
concrete terms. Uh how many trucks will
get in, how many crossings will be
opened uh distribution points so that
people would uh you know receive help
water distribution for for the Gazan
people also waste management a lot of
lot of issues. we reached an agreement
and we really need to see also uh this
agreement put in practice the
implementation and I'm glad to hear that
already today uh there were uh
improvements like fuel uh getting to the
hospitals and and uh you know the
situation being a bit improved
right Ukraine's intelligence says that
Laos is prepared to send up to 50 troops
to a place in Russia for mining
operations given that Sergey Lavrov is
here in Azan And to what extent are you
worried that he is here to beef up
recruitment for the war in Russia in
Ukraine? Well, um, of course, Laos has
denied this and we will have a meeting
also with, uh, representatives from Laos
to ask, uh, because we also give a lot
of development aid to Laos and and if
you know they are supporting Russia's
war, which is existential threat to
Europe, then we have to uh, look into
our rearrangements. It just can't be
that you getting uh you know support
from us and at the same time undermining
us.
Okay, just very quickly we know that
Myamar's uh Jantaa has been squarely
under Moscow's orbit as well. The coup's
chief traveled to Russia and Barus as
well. Any insight as to what sort of
cooperation is underway that could
support Russia's war machine? Well, uh,
of course we are worried about all these
steps and it's clear if we look at the
bigger picture that these autocratic uh,
rulers are really teaming up which is
dangerous for everybody and that's why
we really need to stand up for the
international law, international rules
order and defend it with the countries
that share this same values.
All right, thank you so much. That was
Kaya Kalas, the EU's top diplomat,
speaking to me here at the Koala Lumpur
Convention Center at the Azan foreign
minister's meeting. Hey Mman, thank you.
Nice work as always. Appreciate catching
up. If you go back, let's say, to April
9th, President comes out, 90-day pause,
and by July 9th, we're going to
renegotiate things. I think we'd all sit
around this table. In fact, we did, and
we said, by the time you get to the
morning of July 10th, the EU won't be in
a good place. Based on what we'd heard
from the president at that time, the
EU's in a very different place compared
to where they were 3 months ago.
They're in a better place in some ways.
They've been really working with this
administration and the mood music around
that has been a lot better than say
places like even Brazil or even Canada.
A real question here is what are the
details going to look like and do they
get a letter anyway just because a lot
of people are going to be getting
letters in the next couple days. When it
comes to the European Union, they
decided to do damage control. And it
wasn't just Ursula Vanderline leading up
to this relationship being stronger
between Washington and Brussels. You had
the German chancellor calling the
president. You had Georgia Maloney, the
Italian prime minister, an individual
who ahead of the inauguration was making
this trip to Mara Lago was an individual
who was had an outreach, an olive branch
that was going to try to help Europe
along. So you've seen them capitulate on
a number of issues. What Europe is
trying to do though is protect certain
industries like Airbus, certain autos,
Bernardo, no LVMH putting some pressure
on Brussels to make sure they could
protect some of the luxury goods,
alcohol, etc. But where it ends up, we
still don't know.
You want some good news? We can move on
from the trade story to earnings season.
Up next on the program, Magna Maharesi
of Skiff with Delta earnings just around
the corner. Plus, Yahara Anna with your
morning movers as Nvidia looks to start
a $4 trillion club from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Earning season is about to begin.
Numbers from Delta Airlines just around
the corner. We'll get to them in a
moment. In the equity market, following
two days of losses on the S&P, we broke
that yesterday. supported by some big
gains in big tech. A major rally off the
April low on the Nasdaq 100 and for
Nvidia as well, $4 trillion market cap
briefly. Equity futures this morning
down by a tenth of 1% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ 100 down by a tenth of 1% also
with 3 hours until the cash open. Let's
get you some morning movers. We can do
that with Yhierra Arnard. Hey yara.
Hi John. We start with the American
mining j giant Freeport McMorren up
again today, up 2.5% after Trump made it
official, saying that a 50% tariff on
copper imports will take effect on
August 1st. And because of that, it's
also getting an upgrade from JP Morgan.
They're calling it their top pick and
they're setting a new price target of
$56. That implies an upside that would
mark the stock's highest close in over a
decade. Next up, we have shares of WK
Kellogg absolutely soaring here more
than 50% on reports that Fero, the
Italian maker of Nutella, is closing in
on a $3 billion deal to buy the cereal
maker. We're reporting a deal could be
finalized as soon as this week. So, why
would Ferrero want the American cereal
giant? Well, it's a chance for it to
break deeper into the US breakfast
market and also diversify beyond sweets
and chocolate. And I want to end with a
check on Nvidia. As you were mentioning,
shares are up just slightly, about 610
above percent, but of course, it became
the first company ever to hit a $4
trillion market cap yesterday, just
briefly. We are off those levels now,
but still worth noting given the huge
milestone. John
Yhara, thank you. Thank you very much.
More from Yhara in the next hour. Let's
get to that headline. The news this
morning from Delta Airlines. Does this
set the tone for this quarter
reinstating restoring fullear guidance?
And what you're seeing is the shares
popping some 7 and a half% ahead of the
market open and pre-market trading.
They're saying that again to your point,
they had withdrawn these uh earnings
forecast back in April on the heels of
some of the tariff uh announcements from
President Trump. They are reinstating
them saying that you're seeing a firming
up of consumer demand for domestic
travel. And you could see the response
very much coming from markets saying
hallelujah. Is this really what we're
going to hear from the rest of
Let's go back to midFebruary and think
about why they warned to begin with. It
wasn't just about what might happen,
what might not happen with tariffs. It
was also about safety issues for
aviation. It was also about Doge cuts
hitting business spending and a lot of
the airlines followed after that. And I
wonder what is behind the consumer
rebound that they're speaking to. Yeah,
this is something that we've talked
about. How much is Delta benefiting at
the behest of say JetBlue or some of the
other more discount oriented
vacationoriented uh airlines? Is this
coming from business demand? Is this
coming from Bleisure, the business
leisure blendup? Is this coming from
higher income travelers that tend to
also have the premium offerings? We're
going to have to really dig through this
to understand exactly how much we can
extrapolate out to the other airlines
and to the other industries. It feels
like it is because Delta is saying
premium revenue continue to outpace the
main cabin and corporate demand
environment remains steady. So if you're
a cor if you're in corporate America and
you're concerned about all these
tariffs, well guess what? You're still
spending and you're still spending on
sending your employees out and flying
business class.
The latest from down to Airlines this
morning in the pre-market up by 7%
restoring fullear guidance a range for
EPS of 525 to 625. The estimate was 535.
Joining us now is Bloomberg's George
Ferguson. George, good morning sir.
Thanks for joining us as we kick off
earning season with the airlines. The
news from Delta Airlines, your reaction,
please.
Yeah, so I mean, uh, a slight beat on
the numbers. My sense was when we, uh,
when Delta withdrew guidance was more
that they were concerned. They didn't
understand what was going to happen to
the economy and it seems like it's held
in there better, right? So, uh, with a
slight beat, uh, seems like revenue is
hanging in there, uh, like you read
through some of the report. Uh so I
would think first of all it'll be a
positive for all the airlines but mostly
it's going to be a positive for the big
full service carriers uh into this
earning season.
George Emory really nailed it when she
was talking about how a lot of this was
driven by the premium offerings. How
much you going to see the ongoing
divergence between the airlines that can
cater to the higher income individuals
versus those that have a more kind of
budget friendly approach to their
marketing.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I think you're you're
going to continue to see that uh that
divergence. Again, though, I think if
demand is holding in there, it's a
positive for all of them. Uh but we've
seen premium outperforming. Uh I think
at the bottom end of the scale, you
know, the the budget and the ultra-
lowcost carriers, they are starting to
put some of that uh capacity uh behind
them. They're starting to get rid of
some capacity in the marketplace, which
should help them uh improve
profitability. Uh but I still think it's
a little bit early in that and so I
would again expect that the big full
service carriers Delta, American United
are are going to see better results
because of that premium uh passenger
business.
We're seeing the trading action uh
people really cheering in pre-market
activity this reinstatement of the
guidance for the full year. I'm just
wondering how low the bar was. How much
pessimism has gotten baked in not just
to Delta but more broadly to the entire
airline sector? I think there's a lot of
concern in the airline sector. Uh, you
know, we'll have to again parse through
the earnings they've just come across.
Uh, but you know, the big full service
carriers really benefiting from foreign
travel, travel into Europe. Uh, that
seems like it's been uh holding up. Uh,
and so, you know, again, I think that's
another tailwind for uh the big three
here in the US. Um but I think the
pessimism in the marketplace had been uh
uh you know pretty pretty widespread
recently.
The move this morning speaks to that.
George, thank you sir. George Ferguson
there of Bloomberg the latest on
downturn moments ago decent numbers
reinstating the outlook speaking to a
consumer rebound. Ed Bastian though
listen to this quote I think going one
step further saying this. People are
starting to understand with clarity
where things are headed and that allows
them to start making plans whether to
travel or invest in a business. That's
not just a comment on airlines. That's a
comment on the broader economy.
And this goes to the certainty that we
have gotten which is you can say a lot
about the trade negotiations and where
we are. We know that tariffs are going
higher. We know that companies are
adapting and adjusting to some degree.
The one big beautiful bill arguably is a
more uh is a greater certainty that
people have behind them that has been
passed. So that has allowed certain
companies to make investments and maybe
that's part of what he's speaking to.
Is this a statement on the economy, the
industry, or is it just down to rail
lines? Here's a quote on Delta Airlines.
Magna Maharishi of Skiff, the travel
industry news and research firm, writing
a following. Delta is probably one of
the most strongly suited airlines to
weather the uncertainty. Magna joins us
now for more. Magna, good morning. It's
good to see you.
It's good to see you.
Is this Delta, is it just unique to
Delta Airlines or do you think this is
someone saying, you know what, the
economy is a whole lot better?
I think it's a lot more unique to the
legacy carriers generally. Uh since the
pandemic, we've seen this dynamic where
the legacy carriers have been booming
and that's been primarily fueled by
international and premium travel. Uh a
lot of wealthier travelers wanting to
travel in those segments and that is
something that those airlines have
invested heavily in. On the other hand,
there is still some economic uncertainty
for consumers when it comes to these
tariffs because it's been an on and off
again threat and the deadline has been
extended so many times. And I think that
is still weighing down on more
costconcious consumers which may may
become a longerterm concern for
airlines. But at least right now it
seems as if international and premium is
really offsetting whatever weakness is
there among that cohort of travelers.
which really raises a question about
whether airlines are kind of a microcosm
of the broader trend, which is that
wealthier individuals are continuing to
spend, are continuing to travel, are
continuing to live their lives, and
lower income consumers are really
pulling back and retrenching. Do you
expect the results to actually be uh
increasingly negative at least with
respect to the major airline carriers
from the likes of JetBlue, Frontier, the
other types of budget conscious
airlines?
Yes, I think budgetconscious airlines is
budget airlines are in a far worse
position than maybe they have been a
year ago. Uh right now what we've been
seeing is at least with domestic
airfares, demand and domestic travel has
been pretty weak since the first
quarter. So airlines have been
aggressively discounting those fairs,
they've been cutting capacity and uh now
with these like budget conscious um
carriers, they're now going to be
actively competing with these legacy
carriers on those airfares. Everybody's
discounting them and it puts them in a
position where they need to be selling
the lowest possible price and that's
already been very difficult for them.
How much of a tailwind are gasoline
prices for all the airlines considering
that most of them are unhedged when it
comes to uh the price of crude?
I would say right now fuel has been a
bright spot this past year for airlines
at least in the first quarter with fuel
prices they were down. I think that gave
airlines a boost amidst a lot of that
economic uncertainty that they were
feeling when we saw all these airlines
pulling their outlooks. But obviously it
changes pretty frequently, but it seems
right now that is a pretty bright spot
for them. Given that it feels like Delta
at least is saying we're over the
uncertainty hump, do you think 2025
we'll see more demand and better growth
for airlines than 2024 or is it a wash
still?
I think it's probably still a wash. Uh
obviously I think for carriers like
Delta, United and American that demand
will stabilize and they will still have
probably very strong demand for
international and premium travel which
will offset a lot of other weaknesses.
But I think for the other airlines it
will very much feel like a recessionary
environment because they are mostly
domestic airlines and those travelers
are pulling back their spending for the
most part.
Can we make the argument it put some
pressure on the rest of corporate
America this morning going through
earnings season? You're not going to get
a pass. If Delta can do it, why can't
you? If you are seeing a firming up in
certainty, then reinstate your guidance.
It's not good enough to just say, "Nah,
I don't know." And that I think is a
really important point. Remember, they
got a pass when they reported earnings
back in April, right after the tariffs
were announced. That ship has sailed.
If you're another airline and you were
thinking about not offering guidance
this quarter, this puts some pressure on
you big time.
And it also points to the fact that you
could be punished severely if you
continue with the ambiguity because what
are you seeing that the rest of the
world is not? and rewarded for saying
things are okay. The stock is higher by
9% in the pre-market. Magna, thank you
for dropping by. Appreciate it. Magna
Maharesi there of Skiff. Let's get you
an update on stories worldwide,
including the latest on Delta Airlines.
Back with us with our Bloomberg brief is
Lizzie Burton. Hey Lizzy.
Hey John. Delta Airlines surging in the
pre-market. The company reporting better
than expected second quarter earnings
and reinstating its fullear guidance
after pulling it last quarter. Delta's
results were driven by international
premium demand and loyalty travel.
Demand for economycl class trips in the
US and abroad stalled. Elsewhere, the AI
spending boom continues. Taiwan
semiconductor revenue rose 39% in the
June quarter, beating expectations as AI
application interest drove demand for
its products. The CEO said AI chip
demand still outstripped supply and has
pledged to spend hundred billion on
ramping up manufacturing. And Amazon's
annual Prime Day sale is underway and
initial numbers from the 4-day shopping
event are indicating weak sales. Brand
advisor Momentum Commerce reported a 41%
drop in first day sales compared to a
year ago. Amazon is betting on the
extended sale period to give shoppers
more time to navigate the millions of
deals on its site. And that's going to
be my brief. John,
Lizzy, thank you. More from Lizzy in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, US Treasuries catch in a bit.
There still is a tremendous amount of
demand for bonds. There's a tremendous
amount of demand for for treasuries.
Everyone is asking me where do we get
in? How do we get in? What do we buy?
Things are just stabilizing in the bond
market. Starting to settle down. We'll
get the latest from Lafy Karee of
Goldman Sachs in just a moment. Plus a
recap of earning season so far. One name
starting off with the right tone. Delta
Airlines in a pre-market higher by 8.5%.
[Music]
This is a solid start to earning season
in the pre-market right now. Delta
Airlines higher by 10 a.5%. Delta
catching a bid this morning off the back
of better than expected earnings
reinstating the outlook and I think this
is a really really sign big sign of
confidence coming from Ed Bastian the
CEO of Bremo. People are starting to
understand with clarity where things are
headed.
Yeah. And uh meanwhile the president
went on to say that demand trends are
stabilizing and we continue to see
resilience in our diverse high margin
revenue streams. Guess what? People are
still going to Pula. People are still
going to the south of France. People are
still going all across Europe and you
actually see that transatlantic travel
increasing another 2% on top of the
insanity last year which is crowding on
a lot of tourists.
I'm just going to run with that. They
don't fly direct yet to Kulia but I wish
they did. Are they going to fix that? I
literally think going to say but Delta
doesn't do direct to JFK dire
Bastion if you're watching great results
congratulations fix it stock is up in
the pre-market by 10 and a half%. That's
the stock story under Savannah this
morning. US Treasuries catching a bit.
There still is a tremendous amount of
demand for bonds. There's a tremendous
amount of demand for for treasuries. I
think the Treasury market's in a really
good place right now. Everyone is asking
me where do we get in? How do we get in?
What do we buy? Nobody's asking me how
do I get out of the bond market.
Here's the latest this morning.
Investors looking ahead to a $22 billion
sale of 30-year bonds after some strong
demand for the 10-year note triggered a
rally. Joining us now to discuss is Lafy
Kurui of Goldman Sachs. Lafia, it's good
to see you.
Great to see you. Good morning.
Things feel like they've stabilized.
What's behind this return of confidence
in the bond market?
I think you said it, which is there's
been steady deescalation in terms of
trade uncertainty. We do have more
clarity. We don't have full clarity, but
we definitely have more clarity and
there's a sense that we sort of pass
peak and certainty uh after liberation
day. uh data has been okay without being
spectacular you know signs of weakness
here and there and then I think what
we're realizing is that there has been
enough disinflationary forces in the
work already that are sort of providing
a little bit of an offset to uh you know
to tariffs and so all in all the combo
is not that bad
we've got the treasury market one within
fixed income you've also got corporate
credit let's just talk about the latter
briefly I remember your outlook for 2025
coming into this year and I think you
referred to it as the least compelling
valuations for a long long time fair you
also said that you could be pretty
constru destructive on the asset class
because all in yields are still pretty
attractive. Is that still supporting
credit in America?
We're we're we're exactly back to that
conundrum. You know, if you look at
investment grade spreads were below 80
basis points that those are historically
tight levels. Were below 300 basis
points on high yield. If you look at
yields, it isn't that bad. It's
obviously not as good as it was back in
April, but you still get paid 5 and a
quarter, 5 1/2 in IG. You still get paid
7 and a quarter in in high yield. So the
value proposition from a total return or
an all yield yield standpoint is
actually still pretty good in my view.
At the same time there is this fear that
you have two risks. You have on one side
inflation which could potentially really
pressure the prices send them a lot
lower yields higher in response or you
have a potential weakening in growth
which could potentially force that
premium to go much higher on top of some
sort of uh benchmark rate. Which do you
view as a greater concern?
You have a third force which is the
direction of monetary policy. Right?
Because I think what we've seen so far
is evidence that the news flow on the
inflation front is okay. Uh you know
there's enough disinflationary forces
but we're heading in the right
direction. Uh you know growth has been
mixed. You've seen signs of weakness in
the labor market. Uh you've seen signs
of weakness in the housing market. And
and I have to confess that that came a
little bit as a surprise. But you know
prices are down, volumes are down,
sentiment has deteriorated. So the
question is what does that mean for the
Fed outlook? I think what you need to
see for the Fed to move is essentially a
a stronger embrace of this idea that
tariffs will eventually be a price level
effect that won't sort of theor
inflation expectations. And once they
embrace that view, your three forces
there will line up a little bit and will
go in the right direction. Given the
political theater around rate cuts, what
is the risk that a rate cut would have
the opposite effect? Would cause
actually a less favorable outlook for
particularly long-term bonds at a time
where people are worried that maybe it's
being influenced by something other than
just pure economics.
I really don't think that's a 2025 story
uh to be honest with you. Now, look, of
course, if the data deteriorates very
quickly and the Fed has to respond in an
emergency mode, that's a different
conversation. If for whatever reason we
see some, you know, bad resteeping of
the curve driven by the 30-year, you
know, you know, point, that would be
bad, too. But I think the 2025 playbook
is most likely normalization cuts that
bring you back a little closer to
neutral.
How does the Fed embrace this idea that
it's only going to be a one-time price
adjustment when you have overnight the
president going after Brazil, which runs
counter to why he even used AIPA in the
first place because of trade deficits
with certain countries? How do you
actually map that out if you're sitting
at the Fed?
Yeah, the answer is time. You basically
need time. You're in wait and see mode.
You need time to provide you enough
evidence that, you know, things are not
spilling over into the real economy in a
bad way and more importantly that these
headlines are not deankering inflation
expectations. So far, we haven't seen
any evidence of that actually.
So, when you say time, is September
early enough?
I think September, you know, the odds
are probably higher than 50%. Yes. How
dependent do you think this rally is on
those Fed cuts? because what we've heard
from equity investors is not very what's
the view from credit
uh there is some dependency I wouldn't
say not very you know I think the market
is pricing in a friendly sort of mix of
growth inflation and and and policy now
you know we've been sort of stuck into
that range two to three cuts a little
bit so I think the Fed will have to
deliver some of that
we were speaking with Jeanov yesterday
and given all of these concerns around
the United States given the fear of some
sort of backdoor monetization of the US
debt picture they like European debt
more In the US, you take the opposite
approach. Why?
I think you have a better yield support
in the dollar market. That's really the
story in my view. I mean, look at
investment grade dollar versus
investment grade euro. You know, there's
a carry differential over two points.
It's hard for me to see Europe sort of
outperforming the US in that world. Now,
there is one nuance. It all depends how
you frame it. Currency adjusted or
currency unadjusted. I am talking about
currency unadjusted returns. I would say
second quarter was really interesting in
my view because you had US
outperformance in equities and in credit
alongside dollar weakness. So that tells
global investors don't shy away from the
US own UN assets but own them in an FX
hedgeway which is a little bit of a
paradigm shift relative to that first
quarter where you had a double whammy of
lower dollar and US asset under
performance
I guess. Then how would you recommend it
to European investors given that these
hedges are getting more expensive?
Right? This is getting a very to be a
very crowded trade. At a certain point,
what is the point at which you start to
prefer European assets over US ones
given the fact that the ECB is likely to
cut rates and they're disinflationary
forces coming from the likes of China?
On the fixed income side, I would say
reset in valuation. Quite frankly, that
is unlikely given all the reasons that
you just described. You had big fiscal
stimulus coming out of Germany. you had
ECB that is in still in a more
comfortable position to act actually
faster than the US. So I struggle to see
that happening. But if for whatever
reason you see a reset of valuation in
Europe, that would certainly change my
view. You talked about the disinflation
being fed to the Europeans. I think we
got to be so open-minded about what
happens with inflation going forward.
The news from Japan overnight, do you
see that? Yes.
From the auto makers. These numbers are
amazing. Last month the export price
index for vehicles shipped to North
America plunged by 19.4%
from a year earlier. So that
conversation about all of this will be
taken on by the US consumer. That's not
the case. You're seeing some evidence
elsewhere that maybe they'll have to
take it on the exporter side of things.
This is the most direct way of uh really
displaying how much different companies
are going to absorb it in their profit
margins. And I'm talking about foreign
companies. So it's not necessarily going
to trickle into the US inflation
picture. And we've seen that already
with a number of other companies. We saw
Walmart for example jawboning their
Chinese suppliers to accept a lot more
of it. So this is a complicated picture
and one of the reasons why a lot of
debate is going on about the inflation
picture
and this kind of chart where you see it
go off a cliff in terms of export
prices. Something that will actually
help the administration because they're
saying look what you're seeing in Japan
is they are lowering prices because they
want access to the United States market
and they want access to the US consumer
even if it means it's going to hurt them
in profit margins.
Look just to finish on sectors when you
look across various sectors right now
are you more constructive on some versus
others? You know, I think the big debate
is really cyclicals versus defenses.
We've been sort of defensively
positioned into credit markets. And I
would say when you look at the equity,
things are a little bit distorted
because of tech, because of
deregulation, and because of policy
shifts in sectors like healthcare. But
on the credit side, the rally so far has
been surprisingly defensive, meaning
it's the leadership has been sort of
tilted towards defensive sectors. Uh
we're would be neutral at this point. I
would wait for evidence that that second
derivative is sort of stabilizing a
little bit. We're seeing a couple of
data points on the earning side that
suggest we might be heading in that
direction and so we'll see but at this
point I'd be neutral.
We've all got to wait and see. Lovely.
Appreciate your time as always. Thank
you sir. Luffy Kiruby there of Goldman
Sachs on the latest with tariffs and
what it means for this market. A much
more constructive tone on US credit
there.
Yeah. Talking about how the all-in yield
and we've heard this a number of times
the all-in yield becomes pretty
attractive if you're talking about all
of the uncertainties with policy
headlines and you're talking about
clipping a seven or 8% coupon. looks
pretty good if yes, valuations are tied,
but it doesn't look like this corporate
credit market's going to fall off a
cliff in the same kind of way that it
has say in 2008.
Earning season so far not falling off a
cliff either. One company down, one
company, but it's a good company. It's
down to airlines and they're doing
better in the pre-market. Hired by
10.5%, a better outlook, better numbers,
and strong guidance coming from this
CEO, Ed Bastion.
You know, you nailed it. This really
sets the bar pretty high for a lot of
companies. If they don't put guidance
out or if they don't give a sense that
they have more clarity, people are going
to say, hm, is this a broader macro
picture or is this a you problem? And
also, what does it mean for companies
that were hoping to once again use the
tariff excuse as a reason for we're not
we don't have guidance, we don't have a
ton of demand because of the
uncertainty. You hear it right now from
the CEO. Quote, it is incredibly stable
when it comes to the environment.
That stock is better than stable. It's
high by almost 11%. Up next on the
program, we'll catch up with Lisan
Saunders at Charles Swab, Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall, Michael Zes of Morgan
Stanley, and stay tuned for this one,
the former US Vice President Mike Pence
here in New York City. Live from New
York, the second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance up next.
[Music]
The long-term macro anchors have been
lost. The market is already injecting
more risk premium into certain US
assets.
In the end, it comes down to risk
appetite, right? Markets are behavioral.
The biggest driver of equities this
quarter has actually been the AI theme.
That's why I think we're making all-time
highs.
The market has earned the benefit of the
doubt. This kind of uptrend deserves
that benefit of the doubt.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning to you all.
The second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now and your
scores look like this. Equity futures
recovering lower by only a tenth of 1%
on the S&P 500. Similar move on the
NASDAQ 100. Very close to all-time
highs. Later on this morning, 90 minutes
away, jobless claims in America, 8:30
Eastern time. Later on this afternoon,
$22 billion of 30-year bonds coming to
market at 1 p.m. Eastern time. Already
this morning, your headline, it comes
from Delta Rail, kicking off earnings
season with a bang. Their stock is
higher by 8.5%.
Resilience really is the theme here.
They beat by just a bit, but they
reinstated their forecast after
withdrawing it right after the April uh
Independence Day, Liberation Day
announcement, saying that they have more
clarity and that things do seem to be
firming up. A real question here, is
this just an ongoing uh aspect of the
halves versus the have nots? the
wealthier individuals, the businesses
that are able to travel versus the lower
income consumers that are pulling back
or does this speak to a resilience in
the broader economy?
And is it those individuals flying in
premium that can withstand the
uncertainty and deal with it? Because at
the same time, you have the Delta CEO
saying it's incredibly stable
environment. People are starting to
understand with clarity where things are
headed. Are they really understanding
with clarity? We are getting trade
headlines once again every single day
and even questioning the authority the
president is using these trade headlines
but they're saying things are stable.
The direction of cloud travel I think
for corporate America is clear. So
they're no longer going to be using
potentially at least in Delta's case
trade as this excuse
this market is rewarding confidence that
stock is higher by 9%. If you don't have
clarity what's your excuse. the question
we'll be asking through earning season
now off the back of this
and it's going to be harder to parse
what's a specific company story versus
what's a macro story and we've been
talking about this remember whenever
there's a strong dollar or a weak dollar
people say well you know it's this
expense from FX uh valuation so is this
going to become the new sort of
boogeyman that another number of
companies that already already are
struggling will be pointing to we're
going to see an ongoing diversification
between the halves and the have nots
within corporate America the ones that
are biggest and the boldest enough to
withstand some of the tariff pressure
and those that are having a harder time
and I think this earning season is going
to be interesting that way.
The big keep getting bigger. Nvidia is a
fantastic example of that in the last 24
hours briefly a $4 trillion market cap
and there are certain sectors which just
do not care about the conversations
we're having every single day. the
demand for AI themes at the moment, not
just through Nvidia, but the numbers
from Taiwan Semi, I said it earlier on
this morning, phenomenal revenue numbers
from that company
and the uh the offers for Meta highlight
how price insensitive some of these
hyperscalers and investors in the AI
theme really have become. This isn't a
tariffsensitive area. This isn't a
cyclical area. This is a secular
structural change in the economy and in
technology. And it's one of the reasons
why it's hard to get a signal from a
stock market that's continuing to gain
on the backs of those behemoths, not
necessarily some sort of broader
strength that can be applicable to the
broader economy.
Well, this is a perfect point to SL is
making this morning. Is a stock market
actually representative of corporate
America or just the MAG 7? He says
anyone investing in the S&P 500 today is
basically making a bet on the MAG 7
propelling even higher because the
concentration right now is at extreme
levels. The top 10 companies accounting
for 40% of the index. I keep going back
to this quote from Ed Bastion. I think
we all have to keep going over it.
People are starting to understand with
clarity where things are headed and that
allows them to start making plans
whether to travel or invest in a
business. The current environment he
called incredibly stable. That is
something language we've not heard from
any Fed official at all whatsoever in
the last 2 months. Why?
Partly because they don't understand if
the stability is fleeting or if it's
longer lasting. When I've spoken with
Fed officials off the record, and I'll
just be really honest without mentioning
anybody. It's no longer off the record
now, is it?
It's on background. Whatever you want to
call it. Never mind. I will just say my
observation if I were channeling a Fed
official and speaking to myself would be
that, you know, it seems like corporate
executives have a good degree of
confidence because ultimately people
keep spending. I was looking yesterday
at the Atlanta Fed uh wage data and it's
actually increasing at about 4.2%
year-over-year. This is still decent.
It's not necessarily runaway and
inflationary, but it's solid. And that
is the reason why people are looking at
the steadiness and saying that can
propel this economy even in the midst of
an incredible amount of uncertainty.
Good save, Bremo. Nice save. Equity
futures right now in the S&P negative by
close to a tenth of 1%. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Lisan Saunders
and Charles Swam looking ahead to second
quarter earnings. Michael Zes of Morgan
Stanley with stocks falling on renewed
trade concerns and the former US vice
president Mike Pence joins us for the
back half of the hour. We begin this
hour with stocks fairly stable so far
this morning in the face of renewed
trade concerns. Lisan Sanders of Charles
Swab writing second quarter earnings
calls are critical to assess how
companies are handling tariffs in terms
of pass through andor profit margin
compression. I'm pleased to say that
Lzanne is back with us for more.
Lisanne, welcome back to the program.
We've got to pick up on down to
airlines. They seem to have some clarity
and some confidence for the future. Do
you think we'll see a repeat of that
through this earning season?
Well, John, I heard you earlier. I think
you're absolutely right that certainly
within the airline space, it's going to
be difficult for any other airlines that
might have withdrawn guidance or
provided a really wide range or scenario
analysis to not um narrow that in a
little bit. But I found the the use of
the word stable a little bit odd or at
odds with what has been a pretty
unstable backdrop uh particularly from a
tariffs perspective. So I think I I also
heard you earlier. I think the passage
of the budget bill is good in the sense
that you've got that shity from a
corporate tax extension standpoint, from
an expensing and depreciation
standpoint, but it is still a kind of
whack-a-ole environment from a tariff
perspective. So I I wouldn't describe
the the backdrop as stable broadly.
Blizzin, maybe not in the headline
stance, but from an economic stance, are
consumers getting as tired from all of
the headlines and the headline roulette
as some of the trading partners seem to
be getting? This idea that people are
getting used to this environment of
uncertainty, looking at their paychecks,
looking at the fact that the economy
keeps grinding along and developing a
level of certainty in that.
Well, except that I think Lisa, you
pointed out earlier, uh, we we have a
bifurcation. I think we may be using the
K letter again to describe the backdrop
particularly as it relates to the
consumer because you are seeing pressure
on some of the lower-end consumers
inclusive of now that there's no more
moratorium on the reporting of student
loan delinquencies. They've shot through
the roof that feeds into credit scores,
credit availability, access to other
forms of loans. You see it in the retail
sales data that have been generally
weaker. The next report coming up in the
next week is important. You also saw the
the downward revision to Q1 GDP. A big
pretty hefty chunk of that was was a
consumption revision lower. So I think
there is still some resilience, but it's
it's more up the income spectrum. I
think where you're seeing the the
pressure most acutely is down the income
spectrum. Not to mention the fact that
within inflation data, the
nondiscretionary components, the needs
components, that's where inflation has
been stickiest on the high side and
added pressure for lower-end consumers
cuz more of their spending goes into
those needs buckets. This really raises
a sort of a a deep question about the
stock market and the sort of cyclicals
versus defensives that we've been
talking about and what is defensive at a
time where the big tech names just seem
to be invulnerable to any potential
changes in the broader uh economy. I
just wonder can cyclicals rally on the
heels of just the highincome consumer
again and again or are you going to
start to see what you're talking about
that K-shaped economy play out in a much
more significant way in the upcoming
earnings quarters?
Well, I think what I would guess would
happen throughout second quarter
earnings season is a bit of a
continuation of what we have seen in
recent quarters where the beats um don't
get rewarded anywhere near to the same
degree that the misses get hit. So, I
think there is still that sensitivity,
but I do think we are going to get more
meat put on the bones in terms of what
the strategy is, what the pricing
strategy. We know that a lot of
companies built up a massive amount of
inventories at a lowcost basis
ostensibly giving them an opportunity to
uh kind of experiment with uh with price
increases. So I I I think we're going to
or analysts are going to be asking
pretty pointed questions about pricing
strategy about uh profit margins in
terms of the cyclical outperformance. I
mean industrials is by far the best
performing sector this year up 13 or 14%
besting even technology and
communication services. Also at play
here and what's doing well are sectors
and industries that have a high portion
of their revenue growth coming from
overseas sources. And that's where the
weaker dollar has come into play and
also why a sector like tech is really
pulling up the revisions ratio, the
positive revisions ratio. The weaker
dollar has been a big part of that.
Liz, when it comes to strategies, we're
all aware of the Trump put that was
really prevalent as well in Trump's
first administration, but you're
pondering something new, the Trump call.
What is that?
Well, the the notion of course of the
Trump put was and and we saw it come
into play on April 9th that if there's
enough weakness that kicks into the
market in the case of that first week in
April, it wasn't just in the equity
market. You saw the spike in bond
yields. You saw the the the crush in the
dollar. Um that combination sent a
message to the administration. Wo. Hence
the announcement of the 90ish
uh delay for the reciprocal tariffs. But
I think the the open question that maybe
we're getting a little bit of an answer
to is if you get enough resilience in
economic data, labor market data, you
don't start to see a move higher with
any, you know, meaningful magnitude in
the inflation data and the stock market
trading at all-time highs. Does that
beholden the administration to sort of
press forward with tariffs? So just the
the opposite way to think about it from
a from an options lingo perspective
raises big questions about August one.
Lisanne, as always, perfect framing of
things. Lzanne Sanders there at Charles
Swab on the latest in the equity market.
Just to pick up what Lisanne said about
the K-shaped economy, you can apply that
to AI. You've got baseball style
contracts for some people and meta. It's
going to be harder to get a job for many
others get into these companies.
Yeah, there's a consolidation of uh work
in a smaller group of people, which
raises a question about structurally
what AI does to the economy, which I'm
sure that you're concerned about given
the fact that uh one person can do a lot
more with their time and their space.
And if they are, you know, a brilliant
uh member of society, then maybe they'll
be given that. I do want to say, can you
buy brilliance? Can you buy a culture of
creation or is this going to be really
simple em emblematic of Meta's struggles
with really being at the at the vanguard
of the AI trends.
Mark Zuckerberg clearly thinks she can
and we'll see how it works out. Futures
this morning fairly stable on the S&P
500, very close to all-time highs.
Tremendous numbers coming out of Delta
Airlines and really putting the pressure
on the rest of corporate America through
the rest of this earning season. Let's
keep an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Lizzie Burden. Hey Lizzie.
Hey John. OPEC has barred five news
organizations including Bloomberg News
from covering its bianial oil seminar in
Vienna. The New York Times, Reuters, the
FT, and the Wall Street Journal are also
excluded. OPEC offered no explanation
for its decision, but the block's deacto
leader, Saudi Arabia, has publicly
criticized journalists for their
reporting on the cartel. Elsewhere,
Nvidia founder Jensen Hang will meet
with Chinese officials in Beijing next
week, doubling down on the company's
commitment to the world's largest
semiconductor market despite US curves.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
that Huang's planning to meet with
leaders while in the country to attend
an expo. And Elon Musk said that his AI
chatbot bot Grock is coming to Tesla
next week at the latest. This after
Musk's AI startup XAI rolled out Grock 4
after it was forced to remove the bot's
anti-Semitic comments and replies to
Xusers. Mos Musk touting the bot as
quote smarter than almost all graduate
students in all disciplines
simultaneously. That's Bloomer Brief.
John
Lizzie, thank you. More from Lizzie in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, the president goes big.
Sir, can you explain how you calculated
your latest round of tariffs? Was there
a formula that was used?
The U formula was a formula based on
common sense, based on deficits, based
on uh how we've been treated over the
years and based on raw numbers.
Up next, Michael Zesus of Morgan Stanley
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
Early
[Music]
season begins. The stock is higher in
the pre-market. Delta Airlines up by
close to 12% now near session highs,
better results, reinstating guidance and
a real sign of confidence from the CEO
at Bastion. That stock is higher by
close to 12%. The broader equity market,
equity futures shaping up as follows,
just about unchanged on the S&P 500. The
Nasdaq 100 briefly turning positive
after a 30% plus rally of the April low
for mega cap tech. Just absolutely
phenomenal. Under Savas this morning,
looking to trade, the president goes
big.
Sir, can you explain how you calculated
your latest round of tariffs? Was there
a formula that was used?
The U formula was a formula based on
common sense, based on deficits, based
on uh how we've been treated over the
years and based on raw numbers. Brazil,
as an example, has been uh not good to
us, not good at all. But they're based
on very uh very substantial facts and
also past history. Here's the latest
this morning. President Trump confirming
that the US will begin levying a 50%
tariff on copper imports starting August
1st after the White House sent a new
round of tariff letters to trade
partners. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now for more. Good morning,
Tyler.
Yeah, hey, John. Good morning. Well,
August 1st is now apparently serving
multiple deadlines for the
administration as President Trump
confirms that is when that 50% tariff is
going to go into place. There are still
a lot of big questions here, including
which products are going to be covered
since we know that sector specific
tariffs are often extended to those
downstream products, but we didn't get
much information from President Trump
beyond what he posted on Truth Social.
He did say that he received a robust, in
his words, national security review,
which would indicate to us that that
section 232 investigation on the grounds
of national security concerns is likely
completed, but that public report has
yet to be released. Going forward here,
we know that the sector specific tariffs
are coming into the negotiations for the
so-called reciprocal tariffs as now 22
nations have received letters with these
updated tariff rates. By and large, a
lot of the differences outlined compared
to the rates that they received on April
2nd are are pretty marginal when you
look at which countries received them
such as Japan or South Korea or
yesterday with the Philippines and
Indonesia. Except of course the one big
exception here is Brazil which is seeing
its tariff hiked up from that 10%
baseline rate to 50%. While Brazil has
uh run its own trade deficit. The US has
a surplus with Brazil. It is clear that
President Trump is using a different
sort of basis here to impose it. John,
he is linking this to an ongoing trial
of the former Brazilian president
Balsinaro. We're waiting to see how this
develops and what sort of legal basis
the administration is going to invoke
here if they do choose to move forward
with this plan by that August 1st date.
Some big questions about that one. Tyler
Kendall, thank you. Down in Washington
DC, just where will we be on August 1st?
Michael Zesus of Morgan Stanley writes,
"We'd expect countries like the EU and
Japan to eventually stay at the current
10% baseline rate, albeit with potential
announcements that these rates could go
higher in the future." Michael joins us
now for more. Michael, good morning.
Hey, good morning.
You said base case they would kick the
can. Yeah,
they've kicked the can. Will they do it
again on August 1st?
Um, so I think actually what we got is a
little bit between kind of kicking the
can and what we call tactical
escalation. And so I think between now
and August 1st it's really important in
particular I think to pay attention to
uh the China situation because I think
what we have with kind of the rest of
world exchina Mexico and Canada which of
course the biggest US trading partners
there's kind of a range now right call
it like negotiating space and and when
you add it up the kind of effective US
tariff rate based on that range is like
15 to 20%. And that's the kind of
dynamic that it doesn't eliminate
uncertainty. I heard you guys talking
earlier about clarity and did we get
clarity? like we got a little bit more
clarity. Um but it's something that sort
of clearly underpins we think is slower
growth for the US but not necessarily a
recession but then kind of the next leg
of this is are we doing any further
escalation with China? Are we doing any
further escalation um with Mexico and
Canada? And so I don't know that we'll
learn that on August 1st, right? We
might learn a little bit more precision
within that 15 to 20% range. But if the
US elects to sort of reescalate with
China to negotiate, perhaps they feel
like the embargo level on tariffs
instead of 30% is 60% and they want to
act within that 30 to 60% range. That's
the type of dynamic that might upset
right now what we think is a market
that's pretty good for bonds, not
necessarily good for the dollar, but
fine for equities.
Given the environment the administration
is in with the world, are they going to
have allies lining up with them when it
comes to negotiating with China?
I mean, it's really unclear, right? I
mean a lot of the uh the aspects of the
individual bilateral negotiations are
sort of asking to harmonize how these
trade partners are acting visav China
and that does seem to have been a bit of
a sticking point. The Vietnam model is
sort of an interesting one where it
doesn't look like Vietnam agreed to kind
of harmonize all these tariff barriers
but the US said okay fine if there are
going to be products that come via
Vietnam and we can't sort of validate
that they didn't come from China we'll
give you a higher level. This seems to
be a bit of a sticking point with Japan
as well. Um the real game on this I
think is going to be Mexico and Canada.
If those barriers can't be harmonized
then it's really hard to kind of see
that was effectively USMCA zero or near
zero levels could be preserved. We're
optimistic that they can do that. But I
think that's a really important point to
pay attention to.
How do you take these letters credible
when the president goes after Brazil for
a domestic political issue? I mean
they're credible in the sense I think
they represent what the president's true
fallback position is. Right.
Right. But the executive order was AIPA
because of national security concern
because of trade deficits. Right.
That's not apparent with Brazil visav
trade with America.
Right. Well I there's I think the
practical aspect here is that even if
AIPA isn't the tool, right? So even in a
court challenge situation if AIPA isn't
held up as the tool that can justify
these there are fallback options uh that
the president can fall back to 301
studies you know temporary 144
authorities. So it it's not that I think
that we shouldn't be debating whether or
not these are appropriate authorities
but that the idea that courts can maybe
step in and say no this wasn't the right
use and so therefore the tariffs go
away. It's probably not the right way to
think about it if you're trying to trade
this. You said that we have gotten some
certainty and we certainly have when it
comes to the legislative front. We got
the one big beautiful bill passed in
Washington DC and it's very tied to the
trade issue. This idea of revenues
coming from these tariffs really
offsetting some of the extra
expenditures. You know, putting aside
whether you're free trade or not, how
much does that really create a bill that
isn't quite as deficit producing as some
people are estimating?
Yeah, I mean it's pretty substantial. So
if instead of just looking at the bill,
you say, "Okay, let's look at the total
policy actions of the administration,
what it means for the deficit
year-over-year, and you just kind of
focus and isolate on that, the incoming
tariff revenues are probably mitigating
that year-over-year deficit impact down
from something like 200 billion to south
of 100 billion, right? So it's a pretty
meaningful for 2026. There are other
things escalating the deficit um next
year, but that's pretty meaningful. Of
course, we're collecting tariff
revenues. That's kind of a tax on the
economy. So now there's this kind of
dichotomy between okay where economists
say is that this is lowering growth
pretty meaningfully relative to
potential and so you'd expect the bond
market to kind of reflect that and
yields to go lower and that's our call.
But how is the equity market doing so
well? It's like well you know large cap
stocks aren't necessarily as exposed to
some of these kind of broad tariff
levels. they are somewhat exposed to
some of the the tax roll forwards in the
one big beautiful bill that give them
some some positive uplift in earnings.
And so there's this kind of tricky
balance here in the total policy set
that seems to be good for bonds and good
for equities. But where things for
example might shrink the deficit lower
if you were to ratchet up tariff levels
higher on China, Mexico and Canada um
you would sort of that that balance
would be very much upset by that.
Something that you've flagged is you're
worried about local governments and how
much state and government uh governments
are going to have to lay people off in a
way that we haven't fully appreciated
that's really going to affect the
overall economy in a significant way.
Have you revamped that estimate based on
what we got on the legislative front?
Uh, I mean, we're we're still sharpening
our pencils on all of that, but I mean,
what I'd say here is that we there's a
lot of hard data that we should see over
the back half of the year, in
particular, sort of in the fall and into
next year that should reflect these
policy choices that we're just kind of
not seeing yet, right? So, our
economists have written about the g the
lagged effects of tariff implementation,
usually around like a fourmonth effect,
right? So we haven't seen yet is
companies have to kind of make this
choice between can I test passing on uh
this cost and price or do I have to eat
the cost and sort of deal with cost
management i.e. layoffs uh to deal with
this yet. So I I think the fall is going
to be really instructive as to what the
actual impact is. And by the way, right
now, this kind of idea of negotiating
space, the administration can kind of
act and negotiate without having to
really kind of experience the economic
and political feedback of everything
that they're doing right now.
Doing a quick Fed survey in the seconds
we've got. So, you can just pick a name
or pass. Okay. Kevin, Kevin, Chris
Scott, wild card.
Pass.
Okay. So, Michael Z of Morgan Stanley.
Michael, thank you, sir. Up next on the
program, the former US Vice President
Mike Pence on tariffs, foreign policy,
and much more. Plus, Yahara Island with
your morning movers. Check out Delta
this morning. Surging after it
reinstated its fullear guidance. That
stock is higher by 12%.
Wait, one more time. Can you do that one
more time?
Kevin Kevin Chris Scott Wild Cup.
Ask the vice president. Kevin Kevin
Chris Scott Wildard. Kevin Kevin Chris
Scott.
You got it.
We'll play that next. Okay.
From New York City, you're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all. Equity futures
on the S&P 500 shaping up as follows.
Almost totally unchanged now. Erasing
this morning's losses off the back of
much better numbers from Delta Airlines.
We'll get to those numbers in just a
moment. on the NASDAQ 100 just about
unchanged as well. With two hours until
the cash open, let's get you those
morning movers with Yahara. Hey yhra.
Hi John. We start with our big mover of
the morning and that is Delta Airline.
Shares are flying up 12% after the
company reinstated its 2025 profit
outlook just 3 months after it pulled it
amid all that tariff chaos. But it is a
new day and CEO Ed Bastion says there is
now clarity in the environment is
incredibly stable and because of that
they expect adjusted profit of $5.25
to $6.25 a share this year. That is
below the January's pulled guidance but
it did top Wall Street estimates. What a
way to kick off earnings season. Next
up, we have American mining giant
Freeport Macmarin up nearly 3% now after
Trump made it official saying that 50%
tariffs on copper imports will take
effect on August 1st. And because of
that, the American copper producer is
getting an upgrade over at JP Morgan,
which also set a new price target of
$56.
That implies more than a 20% upside from
here and would mark the stock's highest
close in over a decade decade. And we
end with Circle Shares. They are up 3%
on our reporting that the Jack Mobbacked
Ant Group is working to bring Circle's
USDC stable coin onto its blockchain
platform. John
Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara in
about 60 minutes time. On our radar this
morning, one of our top stories,
President Donald Trump confirming 50%
tariffs on copper imports will begin
August 1st. Trump posting on social
media, America will once again build a
dominant copper industry.
So unlike what's going on with Brazil,
when it comes to copper, the president
is saying this is necessary because of
national security concerns, the use of
copper in the military-industrial
complex. I think a lot of people are
viewing this as we were expecting this
the same way the president went after
aluminum steel because of national
security concerns. The questions that
are lingering are his use of tariffs for
things like domestic politics in another
country. And people are concerned
whether or not this is going to
continue. Is this a lever the president
is going to use? And when people like
Delta are saying there's some clarity
and now the direction of travel is clear
and then you see something like Brazil,
you makes you think, is the direction of
cl travel really clear? This mining
entrepreneur, Robert Freedelland, in the
Financial Times came out and said, "This
is good." And short-term, the market's
not going to like it. But long term, the
United States needs to produce its own
raw materials, especially if you have an
increasingly fraud and geopolitically
fractured world. He was talking about
how they're going to expedite some of
those contracts in Arizona as well,
particularly for minds that he has. And
that, I think, is where the focus is
going to fit uh really shift. How
quickly can you get that production up
to speed? music to the ears of Rio Tinto
and the HP Bulletin. I'm sure Amory
mentioned the likes of Delta. Amazon and
Delta is telling two very different
stories about the consumer right now. A
disappointing start for Amazon's 4-day
prime sales event. According to Momentum
Commerce, sales plunged 41% on the first
day compared to a year ago. Many
analysts still saying the event can be a
success over the last year's two days of
sales.
It's a longer uh time period, so people
might buy less in each of the days.
First of all, second of all, the deals
aren't that good. And third of all,
people buy from Amazon all year long.
And everyone's having a day. I mean,
it's Walmart day, it's Costco day, it's
Brammo day. I mean, at a certain point,
I think people are just like, "All
right, if I need soap, I'll get soap."
Meta employees having a day as well.
These contracts are amazing. Apple's AI
models team his head poached and getting
a pay package worth $200 million.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
that it will be stretched over several
years. the compensation coming in line
with similar hires for Meta's super
intelligence team and that team keeps
getting bigger.
Yeah, we've been talking about how
instead of acquiring another company,
they've just out and out hired some of
the top talent from said companies.
Couple key questions here. What exactly
is Mark Zuckerberg trying to build?
Right. Exactly what is he trying to uh
create for such a high cost? Number one.
Number two, why is he so desperate to do
it? What existential threat is he seeing
that they're not conquering right now?
Number three, can they just hire
brilliance or do you have to create a
culture of creation that actually leads
to the innovation that he's looking for?
Can I ask the first question?
Sure.
Maybe he doesn't know. He just wants to
make sure they can't build it.
The problem with that is if you just get
people in a room and they're at odds at
one another. This has been one of the
accusations of Meta actually if you look
at some of the uh the allegations from
people who have left the company that
they're people who are all working
against each other and it's created this
feeling of kind of hoarding and secrecy
and kind of a culture that isn't
conducive to real kind of collaboration
and pushing forward.
Sounds like Washington.
Yeah,
let's do that.
That's brilliant.
Let's turn to Washington and turn to
trade. The former US Vice President Mike
Pence taken a critical stance on
President Trump's tariffs, writing in a
Wall Street Journal oped in the past few
months that since the president
announced his liberation day tariffs,
the only thing America has been
liberated from is trillions of dollars
in investments. I'm pleased to say the
48th Vice President of the United
States, Mike Pence, joins us now for
more. Mr. Vice President, good morning.
Good morning. Thanks for having me on.
Thank you for being here. I want to pick
up on a question I know you've been
exploring. What can 47 learn from 45?
Let's start there and talk about trade.
Well, well, first off, I want to I want
to give President Trump all the credit
in the world for a historic political
comeback. Um, but in um in that
Republican primary, I was traveling as a
candidate in 2023. I I mostly heard
people saying, "We want to get back in
the midst of the failed economic
policies of the Biden administration. We
want to get back to what the Trump Pence
administration was advancing." And so in
the Wall Street Journal, I I gave the
president great credit, high marks for
securing the border, uh for restoring
morale and recruitment in our military,
for taking the fight to the Houthis.
Since then, I'm we'll talk more later.
I'm very encouraged uh about the strong
stand that the president is taking on
the world stage uh particularly in the
Middle East and in Eastern Europe. Um
but what I wanted to call attention to
was the the policy toward tariffs was
was changed um with liberation day-
during our administration. We use
tariffs and the threat of tariffs
principally focused on China um to
leverage changes in behavior. But the
objective was to essentially lower trade
barriers and expand trade. Um, and in
this administration, I think what we saw
several months ago, now it's paused
again, happily, uh, is the kind of
broad-based industrial policy that I
think ultimately will harm the American
economy, will harm American consumers.
And so, we've spoken out against it. We
we tried to take a stand. what I like to
say is free trade with free nations. Be
tough on China, be tough on trade
abusers, but have the objective of
ultimately lowering uh trade barriers.
And that's how America wins and
prospers. That's how we uh how we won
during our first term.
You've identified that change. What's
your understanding of what's behind it?
What's led that change?
Well, I I I think that what's changed is
that um uh that that uh
I I think the president uh feels at
least I perceive it. You know, sometimes
I tell people I I know President Trump
better than his most ardent defenders.
We we've served together for four and a
half years. We had a close working
relationship. And I've said many times,
President Trump is not an isolationist.
Um he he is a someone deeply committed
to free market capitalism, but for all
of his career, he has been very
sympathetic to protectionist thinking
and philosophy. You can go back 30 years
on YouTube and and find Donald Trump
saying the same things that President
Trump is saying today. Now, he and I had
many vigorous conversations during our
four years about trade. I I come from uh
one of the leading exporting states in
the country. what we what we make, we
grow in Indiana, we sell to the world.
Um, but at the end of the day, I think
what you're seeing is not different
influences around President Trump. I
think you're simply seeing him um uh
extending out into a philosophy of
government and economics that he has
long believed.
Were these impulses then there when he
during the first administration and
individuals like you maybe talked him
out of it?
Well, I I don't know that it was
I mean, we there were a few times that I
saw him change his mind on things, but I
I think it was more about priorities in
in the first term uh to make sure that
we we passed the the tax cuts to rolled
back regulation, unleashed American
energy, and and we changed the the
national consensus on China. Um China
with its years of trade abuses. Um, and
I was a I played a a leading role in
articulating that in the early going,
and I'm incredibly proud of that record
and glad that at least the Biden
administration didn't change the tariff
policy uh toward China. But for me, it
was more about um uh it was more about
driving toward free trade agreements. I
had the privilege of of announcing the
beginning of a of a free trade agreement
with UK at this in the city of London.
We renegotiated uh a free trade
agreement with South Korea that's back
in the news this week uh with with new
tariff threats and we were I was leading
um with my counterpart in Japan. I was
actually tasked with with leading a
working group for a free trade agreement
with Japan. So um for for us it it was
we we saw an expansion of trade and
opening markets as a key part of
American growth. Right now, I actually
believe that President Trump is driving
toward a long-term change in industrial
policy in America where he sees
permanent uh unilateral trade tariff
barriers as beneficial to America in the
long term. And I um as a free market
conservative, it's something I just
don't embrace.
Can you do that and isolate China with
the rest of the world on board at the
same time? Well, Amory, I think that's
the right question. Um, that
Senator Phil Graham, we had on Capitol
Hill with our foundation yesterday, had
over a hundred staffers that came out to
hear him, he had probably the best
description of it. He said u uh he said
by by going after all of your the free
nations that you're trading with at the
same time that you're trying to bring
China farther along into opening markets
and uh ending uh years of trade abuses.
He said it's it's like it's like
dismissing your front line uh in a
football game and expecting you're going
to take on the other side. Look, we need
Japan. We need South Korea. We need
Australia. We need the EU to continue uh
to bring the kind of economic pressure
on China that that I believe it uh is
all that President Xi and the Chinese
Communist Party will will respect. We
saw some change. Remember that phase one
trade deal in the early days of 2020?
Most people have long since forgotten
it. There were bigger stories that year
by far. But we saw the ch when we
imposed those $250 billion in tariffs,
the Chinese came to the table quickly
and began negotiations and um um I I
still believe that's the right approach
with free trade with free nations being
the back stop.
Mr. Vice President, I want to pick out a
line in that Wall Street Journal oped
that John was mentioning that you wrote.
Mr. Trump's proposed tariffs would be
the largest peaceime hike in American
history, harming consumers and driving
inflation.
Right. President Trump, his
administration has been talking about
they're not going to be inflationary,
that the producers in other countries
are going to absorb it. Are you seeing
evidence that that's not the case? Are
you really concerned about what this
does to the economy?
Well, I I really am. Uh, and I
understand that that's the debate right
now. We haven't seen the inflation from
Liberation Day. And I think there's
several reasons to explain that. Uh
number one is um the the tariff regime
was paused and has now been paused again
and the markets and are responding to
that and businesses are responding.
Secondly, I I got to tell you the
businesses I talked to as I travel
around the country have been spending an
awful lot of money on inventory right
now.
You know, there's an old saying that
where I come from that, you know, I was
born in the morning but not yesterday
morning. So people say these these
tariffs are coming so why why don't we
why don't we fill the warehouse right
now. Um, and I think that's wise. But,
you know, at the end of the day, uh, I
also think that, you know, the president
on liberation day talked about 25% 50%
70% tariffs on countries. Um, and seeing
some of these early frameworks that end
up like with the UK with a with 10%,
there's a temptation to say, well,
that's just 10%. And so I think that's
the reason why markets, it's why
businesses have not adjusted prices yet.
But if we have a unilateral tariff of
10% on the American economy of all
imported goods, that's four times the
average tariff today. And and I and the
reality is that I I I watch, you know, I
spent a lot of time in that cabinet
room. Um, I watched a little bit of the
cabinet meeting this week and I saw
Secretary Bessant um, speaking very
glowingly about the projection is $300
billion in tariff revenue this year.
Well, well, tariffs are a tax and uh,
American importers and businesses and
ultimately consumers pay almost all of
that. And so, literally a week after we
managed to extend the Trump Pence tax
cuts and prevent a $2,000 tax increase
on working families, the administration
is right now boasting of the fact that
uh that the average American household
is going to see about $3,000
increase in the cost of goods because
we're paying that. So, I that's why I
referred to Liberation Day. I said could
well be the largest peacetime tax hike
in American history. We've been pushing
back on that. I I welcome the pauses,
but I I'm uh I I really do believe the
antidote here is free trade with free
nations. Tough on China, but but uh
continue continue to drive toward
lowering trade barriers and and and and
uh you know, non-tariff subsidies.
You referred to the inflation risk. The
White House would also like this Federal
Reserve to cut interest rates. You've
been in the room a few times, I'm sure,
talking about this Federal Reserve. How
did the president end up with a Fed
chair that he dislikes so much?
How did that happen?
Well, yeah, it's Well, I I' I've been
watching a lot of what the president's
had to say about Jay Pal lately, and I
um
he did appoint him, so we're it's part
of the awkward aspect here. Well, first,
the I think the president of the United
States is fully entitled to express his
opinion. uh about both the Fed chair and
about the Federal Reserve itself. I have
long had great concerns about the dual
mandate and the Federal Reserve. I think
it confuses the issue. The Federal
Reserve has this for for your viewers
has a dual mandate to protect the
integrity of the dollar and achieve full
employment. I look I I think the Federal
Reserve ought to just focus on the
dollar and I think that the hesitation
that I have seen uh from the Fed chair
and and ostensibly the committee uh is
that the uncertainty around these
broad-based tariffs and the potential
for inflation has slowed their intention
and and their earlier efforts at at
lowering rates. And so, um, uh, how the
president got, uh, uh, to where he con
he considers, uh, the Federal Reserve
chairman to be worthy of the nickname
too late, I I I can't really testify,
but but to me, it, you know, pushing
back on on the idea that what what's
what seems to be holding up the Federal
Reserve, although I read this morning
that there's now more vigorous debate,
I'm sure you've covered here on
Bloomberg.
Yeah. on the committee um as um uh that
there we may have low lowering of
interest rates which we certainly would
welcome.
As you know the president one of his
greatest strengths is to break the
status quo and have very little respect
for it. Are there limits to that and his
Fed independence an example of it. But
but that's that's right and I think look
the the president appoints the chairman
of the Federal Reserve and a careful
study of American history shows I I
don't really accept that the Federal
Reserve should be a completely
uh separate agency um you know like a
college of cardinals that we never refer
to other than in respectful hush tones.
John, I think a president ought to be
able to express himself. Elected
officials ought to be able to express
themsel because it's almost like that
old saying about the Supreme Court, you
know, that that justices do read the
newspaper and I expect that's also true
of members of the Federal Reserve.
You have taken a balance view on the
current administration. You've been
somewhat critical of trade. We've
discussed that.
I would say a ringing endorsement about
their approach to the Middle East. So,
let's talk about that.
Yeah. where you were in your first term
with the president, where he is in his
second term, and what went wrong in
between from your standpoint on the
Middle East.
Well, I just think when when Joe Biden
returned uh to uh a policy of
appeasement toward Iran, uh it it really
emboldened uh the enemies of Israel
across the region. I I I traveled to
Israel um about 6 months uh after
October 7th and saw what occurred there.
And I I would tell you it's one of the
things I'm probably most proud of in our
administration. And not only did um uh
did we we changed the national consensus
on China, but uh we were probably uh the
most pro-Israel administration
um since the reestablishment of the
state of Israel in 1948. There's just
simply no recognizing moving the
American embassy to Jerusalem,
recognizing the Golanites. These were
all historic achievements that everyone
told us would fment violence and discord
uh across the Middle East. But again,
another 2020 story that is long
forgotten by many people is the Abraham
Accords. I mean, we we actually
demonstrated that when you stand without
uh in an unwavering way with with Israel
that I call our most cherished ally uh
throughout our history, um it it sends a
very clear signal that makes peace more
possible, not less possible. We also
isolated uh Iran as never before. Um we
unleashed our military to take down the
ISIS caliphate. Um, and of course we the
president made the decision to take down
Kasum Solommani, the head of the uh Iran
Revolutionary Guard. All of that had uh
had Iran on its back heels. The Biden
administration changed that went back to
the Obama approach of re-engaging with
the Mullers in Thrron. I think they were
emboldened u the violence that we saw
whether it be October 7th uh with Hamas
one of their patron groups um or the
Houthis uh all were a result I I've
always believed that that weakness
arouses evil uh but peace comes through
strength and and the weakness of the
Biden administration I think uh created
the conditions for the mayhem that uh
the new Trump administration inherited
and that's why I've been been so
encouraged uh to see the the strong
stand the president has taken uh with
Israel. We we uh u we publicly encourage
the use of American military assets. If
if Iran was not willing to dismantle
their nuclear program, I we I believe it
needed to be destroyed. And I I commend
the president for his decisive
leadership and our incredible airmen uh
who uh delivered those payloads. You
welcome those strikes on the Iranian
nuclear facilities, but the president
still talks about a deal with Iran. Do
you think he'll do a deal at any cost?
Well, I I I hope not. I said in that
Wall Street Journal piece that you
cited, it was u about two months ago and
and one of my concerns in addition to
some of the tariff issues that we talked
about was that a lot of what we were
hearing from the administration in in
the first 100 days sounded an awful lot
like a new Iran nuclear deal. uh and u
we push back on that pretty hard and and
um I I uh my hope is uh that uh the
president having uh having seen both uh
the the runup to the need for American
action uh and also the response uh by
the Mullis and Thyron will um uh we'll
we'll keep he'll keep his hand on on the
holster and uh uh and look ultimately
for achieving the objective that That
has been the stated US policy through
multiple administrations that Iran can
never be allowed to obtain a nuclear
weapon or have a nuclear program of any
kind.
When it comes to foreign policy, you've
been very critical and hawkish on
Russia. In the debate, when you were uh
running with President Trump in the
first term, you called Putin a small and
bullying dictator. Why do you think
Trump has only just started changing his
tune when it comes to Vladimir Putin?
Well, I've never had any illusions about
Vladimir Putin. No, but President Trump
has
Well, I'm that remains to be seen. I I
would um tell you that, you know, I was
on the foreign affairs committee when I
was in the Congress, been a student of
Vladimir Putin. He's he's never made a
secret of his ambitions in Eastern
Europe. Uh it's it's something he's
spoken about, written about. He his his
aim has always been to reestablish the
old Soviet sphere of influence in
Eastern Europe. And I really do believe
it was our administration in the Trump
Pence years that were the first to to
literally provide lethal aid to Ukraine.
I think that's what discouraged Putin
from from crossing that border during
those four years.
And u I I think it it continues to be
the only pathway toward peace today.
But forgive me, Mr. Vice President. To
go back to Emory's question, what's
changed? Because right now we've seen a
president who's warned against Russia
doing crossing certain red lines that
Russia's crossed and then the sanctions
haven't come right.
What do you think is going on?
Well, I'm I'm hopeful that they will.
What makes you hopeful?
I am. Uh I've I've seen some statements
by uh my friend Senator Lindsey Graham
um who just in the last few days said
that the president told him uh to move
the bill and and these new Russia
sanctions
um uh which are the secondary sanctions
against people that are doing business
with Russia that are subsidizing
uh the war effort by oil purchases and
energy purchases uh I think can be
enormously uh impactful.
Uh I you know I I would I would say that
um you know
I I I've made it very clear uh that uh
that that uh my deep conviction is
Vladimir Putin doesn't want peace.
Vladimir Putin wants Ukraine. Um and um
despite the stops and starts that gave
many of us concern including that uh
famous Oval Office uh meeting between
the president and President Zilinski who
I came to know well. Um I sense that my
old running mate is coming around to
recognizing Putin's real intentions
here. I mean, when I I think that um the
the u the clear irritation uh in the
president's voice of having a
conversation and then to see some of the
some of the worst drone attacks launched
in Kiev within uh a matter of hours um
is um uh I think having its effect. But
look, I I just think um that I was
pleased that the president countermanded
what had been a pause of aid to Ukraine
last week, which u I I think u was uh
unfortunate
uh wherever it originated, but I I
commend the president for reversing that
decision. Uh, and my hope is when the
Senate reconvenes uh that that Senator
Thunel will put the uh uh the Graham uh
bill on the floor and um put it on the
president's desk. I think it's time and
um uh and it's my judgment. I've met
Vladimir Putin. I've stood with him
closer than I'm sitting next to you.
I've told him things he didn't want to
hear. And um uh I think he is um I think
he is not a man who understands anything
other than strength. Uh and um uh this
is a moment I think where uh it's in the
interest of our country. It's in the
interest of our allies in the region.
Yeah. uh and long-term peace in Eastern
Europe for us to continue to provide
military support to Ukraine to put
punishing sanctions on Russia until a
just and lasting peace can be secured.
Mr. Vice President, appreciate your
time, sir. Enjoyed the conversation.
Great. It's good to see you. Thank you.
The former vice president of the United
States there, Mike Pence. Up next on the
program, we'll catch up with Matt Durki
of Northwestern Mutual, Liz Ezra of the
Bank of America Institute, Nila
Richardson of ADP, plus Oxana Arnoff of
JP Morgan Asset Management.
[Music]
My base case is that the president
really likes tariffs. We are in for a
much higher US tariff regime. There's a
lot of uncertainty out there in terms of
the effects of tariffs.
The only constant here is change. I
don't necessarily think that August 1st
is necessarily a hard and true date.
This is the end game. We'll certainly
see more certainty. We've accepted the
fact that tariffs are here to stay.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
What a morning already. Live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
Good morning to you all. The third hour
of Bloomberg surveillance starts right
now with equity futures doing okay at
the moment. Equity futures just about
positive on the S&P 500 supported by
better than expected numbers and a
decent outlook from Delta Airlines. On
the NASDAQ futures positive by about a
tenth of 1%. The next stop for this
market 30 minutes away 8:30 Eastern
time. Jobless claims in America.
The focus really gets down to the real
economy. You could look at the stock
market and say everything's fine.
Everything is fine with the big tech
giants and Nvidia that's turnurning
toward that 4,000 uh 4 trillion excuse
me uh dollar mark just numbers at this
point. Uh but the real question is if
you look under the hood, how much is
this K-shaped economy really widening
where you do have an increasing number
of people uh getting laid off and what
does that mean for a Fed that's
increasingly political and increasingly
torn from the inside?
More tariffs, more tariffs, more
tariffs, but apparently clarity on the
outlook. Isn't that amazing? Delta
realized this morning cutting through
the noise saying we've got some clarity
on the outlook. Things have stabilized.
Things have stabilized. They certainly
don't feel stable but at the moment for
the seauite for corporate America. I
think this sets the bar very high going
into earning season for everyone else
trying to communicate and provide
guidance.
This is the embodiment of so many
economists who've come on this show and
said peak uncertainty was April 2nd.
Peak uncertainty was April 9th. We're
past peak uncertainty. This can be
positive for Delta. They're they're
saying our business is past peak
uncertainty and we can come with some
sort of forward guidance. You're
correct. How much do other airlines in
particular have to really give some sort
of sense of clarity and if they don't,
how much are they going to be punished?
Is this applicable to other industries
as well? Can they have the same clarity
if they are going to be subject to
tariffs that are still in the process of
being negotiated?
What's also so challenging when it comes
to Delta is they're basically saying
clarity where things are headed that
allows them to start making plans. Okay,
they have clarity of direction of
travel, but what I still think is
complicated is the details. The devil's
in the details when it comes to the
trade agreements, the frameworks, and
the rates that are being set. I woke up
this morning, I'm sorry, with more
questions. What's going on with copper,
if there's going to be carveouts, and
exactly what products are going to be
hit? And when it comes to Brazil, if
Brazil is going to be used and it's not
an issue of trade deficit, then does
that mean this administration is going
to go after more economies for other
issues like taking issue with what's
going on with their domestic politics?
So, I woke up with a lot more questions,
but I'm glad corporate America sees
stability.
This market has moved on very quickly in
the past few months as the bond market
moved on as well. 10-year bond yields
this morning high by just a single basis
point. The yield on that maturity is
434. Had a test yesterday, passed it.
auction. Okay. Get another one later on
this afternoon for 30-year debt.
Yeah. And in between, we got the
Japanese 20-year auction. So, that went
okay. It didn't go terribly. It didn't
go amazingly, but that's a good enough
bar to cross. So, if we get the same
kind of reaction from the 30-year, do
you get a break in the trend that we
have seen a 5-day trend of yields higher
that was broken yesterday with this
better than expected auction. Does that
speak to anything big or is this just
sort of a technical kind of positioning
issue? I keep going back to that. I
mean, we're playing narrative roulette
right now. Love playing it. I'll play it
all day. It does feel though it's maybe
too soon to make that extrapolation.
I want some of that Edbastian stability
in my life in this bond market. The
30-year 487. Coming up on the program,
Mas Durki of Northwestern Mutual on the
importance of managing risk. We'll catch
up with Liz Everett Chrisberg, head of
Bank of America's Institute with a read
on the US consumer and Oxana Aronov of
JP Morgan Asset Management on why the
Fed is doing the right thing. We begin
this hour with stock steady as President
Donald Trump heightens trade tensions.
It's Matt Stucky of Northwestern Mutual
writing the following. We've been
rebalancing away from areas of the
market that are expensive or where risks
are not well discounted. Matt joins us
now for more. Matt, welcome to the
program, sir. Need an extra few lines on
that quote. Which areas of that market?
Just describe them.
Well, in terms of kind of what's
expensive in markets, I think you look
domestically here in the United States
and it's it's hard to ignore just the
valuation uh higher than we've seen in
US large cap stocks. Um we're at cycle
highs in terms of kind of where markets
are trading today, making just a
V-shaped recovery from where we were in
April to where we sit today. You know,
while on the positive side, earnings
revisions are grinding higher on a
forward 12-month basis against those
rising expectations. We're paying 22 and
a half times forward earnings. And when
we're talking about managing risks, one
of the risks that we continue to to
monitor is kind of the direction and
travel of the 10-year yield. I I think
in terms of kind of what could reset
that multiple or what the price uh
investors are paying for the S&P 500 is
kind of the direction of of of the
10-year yield here. So in terms of
managing risk, you know, that's the the
one front and center in front of us
here.
So Matt, I've got to ask you about the
bond market then to explain what's going
to happen with stocks going forward.
Tell me what's going to happen with the
bond market. 10-year auction yesterday.
Okay. Lisa mentioned what happened in
Japan overnight. The 20-year auction
seemed to go all right. Can we move on?
And if not, why not? Yeah, I I think I
think really from here I think the
direction of inflation is going to
dictate kind of what happens with
yields. Um, you know, in in terms of
kind of what what's going to dictate
that it's it's really kind of kind of
the direction of of of what the Federal
Reserve is planning to do and how
investors react to that. Um, you know,
there's an awful lot of easing already
priced into the forward curve, you know,
with cuts starting in September, another
one probably by year end. um if you
start to see inflation data trend
upwards in the third quarter as we kind
of burn through those inventories that
were built in Q1 uh and replace those
inventories with higher rack rates on
tariffs uh as those inventories get
replenished and end up on consumer
doorsteps you know that to me I think is
probably uh the question mark for kind
of where the 10-year rate goes uh
additionally in terms of um you know is
is the market at some point going to
care about you know 6% plus deficits for
the Federal Reserve I think that's an
open question.
There is a larger debate and you're kind
of making a controversial point. It used
to be not so controversial now when
people would say, "Well, if the 10-year
gets above this level, then stocks are
going to sell off." It's getting
increasingly controversial because the
stock market's being driven by big tech
behemoths that aren't exactly interest
rate sensitive. And you have sort of
damned if you do, damned if you don't on
the Fed where if the economic data is
negative, they'll cut rates, but maybe
not for the reason that you want. Why do
you see this as being so crucial at a
time when honestly there's a debate
about the relevance of yields to stocks
that seem to be beaten to their own
drum? Well, I think uh what we've seen
throughout history, Lisa, is just, you
know, once at least in recent history,
last couple of years, is once we kind of
pass that four and a half% level on the
10ear 10-year yield, regardless of kind
of whether a stocks in the technology
sector or if it's outside of the MAX 7,
uh that correlation to bond prices has
increased across the spectrum. Uh and so
uh if that relationship holds true, if
if we do see rates grind higher in the
back half of the year, and that's not
necessarily our call, but it's just an
exercise in risk management, we do
expect that to to reassert itself. And
so regardless of probably you know the
you know the the ongoing um uh financing
and kind of balance sheet health of some
of these large technology companies you
know I do think that correlation does
matter and and you know cash flows are
discounted interest rates and you know
the higher the rates the the bigger the
discounting function. We're talking
about all of these sort of whatifs and
people have kind of hid out in the
certainties which is the consistency of
spending in the big tech uh names.
Nvidia flirting with $4 trillion in
terms of a market cap valuation. Peter
Bfar came out with this and I thought
this was fascinating to put perspective
on $4 trillion saying that that's about
$3.6% of global GDP and that at Cisco's
peak back in March 2000 it's uh it
accounted for about 1.6% 6% of global
GDP. Of course, this is going to raise
questions. Are we looking at some kind
of bubbleicious activity given the fact
that people are looking for a certainty
and finding it in only the narrowest of
stocks? How do you treat that type of
question?
Well, I think there's there's two
questions there, Lisa. One is kind of
what happens in the short term and over
the longer term. I think in the short
shorter term, you know, you're looking
at a company like Nvidia or other
companies in the technology sector. What
do they all have in common? and they
have balance sheet strength. They have
higher margins that can absorb tariff
uncertainty. They have secular growth
behind them in terms of the AI capex
buildout. And most importantly, they are
leading this market higher in terms of
earnings revisions. And if you're
looking at kind of what's been working
in markets the last couple of years,
it's exactly that. It's quality stocks.
It's companies with earnings revisions
grinding higher. And from a valuation
perspective, despite, you know, that 4
trillion of market cap, if you look at
kind of where Nvidia's uh been uh been
trading from a four valuation
perspective, uh they've continually met
the moment in terms of of of exceeding
expectations and that valuation has
never kind of really gotten out of
control relative to some of the other
areas of the market that are more
speculative. And so, uh, it's just kind
of been this this perfect company in
terms of, u meeting a secular wave of
demand, uh, while also, you know,
exceeding kind of all analyst
expectations as it relates to earnings.
Matt, you say in your notes that the
markets are embracing the taco trade
right now. How risky is that?
I think I think it does pose some risk.
I mean, what I what I mean by, you know,
markets embracing the taco trade is, you
know, right now effective tariff rates
are in the area code of 10 to 12%. If if
indeed higher tariff rates are enacted
on August 1st, uh we're talking about a
stepping up of of an effective tariff
rate towards the high teens, potentially
to the low 20s as more announcements are
made. Um you know, that's about a 2% or
so hit to GDP. Uh and if you're looking
at how risks are priced today, uh you
just looking at the high yield bond
market, spreads are only out 20 basis
points from the year-to- date lows. They
gapped out 200 basis points in April.
And so, you know, that's what I'm
talking about in terms of markets
embracing the taco trade is just
investors really looking through
potential weakness as a result of that.
And I don't know if necessarily that's
the most uh, you know, the best risk
management decision.
Matt, thoughtful and it's good to see
you. Matt Stucky there of Northwestern
Mutual and not the first time we've
heard it so far this morning. Yeah,
the president might back down, but back
down with equities close to alltime
highs and credit spreads near the tights
of the year, that's a very different
question,
which really raises the issue of how
much can you get into a market that has
such high valuations, an increasing
number of people are asking.
And also the president right now, why
would he back down if the market at this
moment is not pushing back? He backed
down when the bond marketers were
getting yippy and equities were falling
off a cliff after April sec 2 second
liberation day. The market basically
shrugged this off. So why would he back
down now? Especially as Kelly and Shaw
said yesterday, if you're at the end of
a negotiation and you want to extract as
much concessions as possible, he might
get even more aggressive as we look
towards August 1st.
And no sign of the yips yesterday at
that 10-year auction.
Yeah. You know, and how much of this is
just because people are sick of being so
pessimistic and some of the inflation
expectations are coming down and frankly
we are seeing some sharing of where the
uh extra cost is going. It's not all
going to the consumer, but you know,
extrapolating that one out, go figure.
It's pretty interesting to see this
fight play out in real time at the
Federal Reserve.
It is.
You've got half the Federal Reserve
right now saying oneoff shock. We can
look through it. The other half saying,
"We don't know. Let's wait. We'll see
you again in September."
With them adding that you might actually
be getting close to the neutral rate for
the Federal Reserve. There's a real
question, how much strength is there in
the US economy? And underpinning that
has been the ongoing resilience and
Delta really pointing to it in a
remarkably stable environment. What's
stable? It's the US economy, not
necessarily policy because that is
anything but.
Matt Kentner of HSBC last week remember
what he said when he published he said
buy any selloff this week on trade. Buy
it because the bar is really low for
corporate earnings going into next week.
Well, I can tell you after Delta that
bar's inched up a bit, hasn't it? It's a
little bit higher.
You got to give clarity. You got to give
some sort of outlook. You need to give
some explanation of what's going on. And
I think it's going to be very
interesting next week with the big US
banks. how much activity mergers,
acquisitions, deal planning,
infrastructure spending is going to come
back to the four. Delta saying they have
the conviction to go ahead with plans.
Do you see that from the rest of
corporate America?
Equity futures so far this morning just
about unchanged on the S&P 500. No drama
here with an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Lizzie Burton. Hey Lizzie.
Hey John. OPEC has barred five news
organizations including Bloomberg News
from covering its bienial oil seminar in
Vienna. The New York Times, Reuters, the
FT, and the Wall Street Journal are also
excluded. OPEC offered no explanation
for its decision, but the block's deacto
leader, Saudi Arabia, has publicly
criticized journalists for their
reporting on the cartel and death. Delta
Airlines surging in the pre-market. The
company reported better than expected
second quarter earnings and reinstated
its fullear guidance after pulling it
last quarter. Delta's results were
driven by international premium demand
and loyalty travel. Demand for economycl
class trips in the US and abroad
stalled. And Kellogg shares rallying
after the Wall Street Journal reported
the Italian candy maker Ferrerero is
nearing a $3 billion deal to buy the
breakfast cereal conglomerate. The Froot
Loop maker has a market value of about
$1.5 billion and more than $500 million
in debt. The deal could be finalized as
early as this week. And that should be
my brief. John
Lizzy, thank you. I might as well say
that. I did want them to buy AC Milan
and not Kelly Kell
instead of instead of cereal. You don't
like American cereal either. That that I
mean he's a lot of cash. Maybe he
cereal kind of guy. It's not just
American cereal. I don't discriminate.
Don't like any of it.
I think that you should put Nutella on
Froot Loops and make little stacks and
then you could have the perfect
That is not Maha.
You're going to let the kids eat that?
Yeah.
For dessert maybe with frosted flakes on
the side.
Wouldn't want to be around for the
aftermath of that. Up next on the
program, the morning calls. Plus, Liz
Everett Chrisberg, the head of the Bank
of America Institute on the state of the
US consumer. That conversation just
around the corner.
[Music]
How is the equity market doing so well?
It's like, well, you know, large cap
stocks aren't necessarily as exposed to
some of these kind of broad tariff
levels. they are somewhat exposed to
some of the the tax roll forwards in the
one big beautiful bill that give them
some some positive uplift in earnings
and so there's this kind of tricky
balance here in the total policy set
that seems to be good for bonds and good
for equities Mike Zus of Morgan Stanley
it's a better equity market very close
to all-time highs equity futures this
morning just about unchanged on the S&P
similar move on the NASDAQ 100 that's
the price action here are your morning
calls first up Goldman initiating
coverage of Nvidia with a buy and 185
price target, saying the AI investment
cycle can sustain growth. Your second
call from HSBC upgrading AMD to buy and
doubling its price target. The analyst
saying there could be significant upside
to 26 AI revenue. And finally, Citizens
JMP raising its price target on Amazon,
saying the company's ability to offer
faster delivery can unlock additional
retail growth. The stock is down by
about a third of 1%. Let's turn back to
the stock we're all watching this
morning. Shares of Delta Airlines
surging in the pre-market. With more,
here's Yahara Arnard. Hey, Yahara.
Hi, John. We were all waiting for this
moment, not just because it's the
kickoff to earnings season, but because
Delta deeply disappointed back in April
when it pulled guidance, but as you just
said, it has reinstated its guidance.
Now, they expect adjusted profit of
$5.25 to $6 to25 a share this year. And
while that's below January's pulled
guidance, it still topped Wall Street
estimates. And the good news did not
stop there. It also beat in the second
quarter overall thanks to strong sales
in premium international travel and also
spending on its loyalty program. But
they say that demand for trips in
economy class have sol stalled. So not a
good sign for the lower income consumer.
Still, Delta's results are lifting all
the airlines this morning. But we're
taking a look at where we stand year to
date. As you can see, it is not pretty.
Delta, JetBlue, American, and United are
all down double digits this year because
domestic travel just hasn't picked up,
especially in economy class as Delta
told us today. So, they have been
discounting in order to offset that
lower capacity. But have we turned a
corner? Are we in a better place? Well,
Ed Bastion seems to think so. He called
the current environment incredibly
stable and he gave us this quote here.
He says, "People are starting to
understand with clarity where things are
headed and that allows them to start
making plans whether to travel or invest
in a business." So, a vote of confidence
on him there. John
Yahara, appreciate it. Thanks for the
update. We'll have more from Yhara later
in the hour on some of the movers to
watch into the opening bell. Let's stick
with the US consumer. Bank of America
releasing its monthly consumer
checkpoint highlighting ongoing softness
into the summer months. The report
finding spending rebounded in June but
didn't fully offset declines in both
April and May. Joining us now to discuss
is Liz Everett Chrisberg, the head of
Bank of America Institute. Liz, good to
see you.
Great to be here.
Let's just talk about where we are right
now and also where we've been over the
last few months because this has been
very confusing. We had this big pull
forward and now we feel like we've had
some payback. Where are we now?
So, I think it depends on if we're
looking at services or if we're looking
at retail. If we're looking at retail
and we're looking at durables, things
like electronics, things like furniture,
we are still seeing spending kind of
decline in in those categories because
you've got the payback from the tariff
buy ahead. But for the first time in in
frankly a long time, we actually saw
what drove the consumer spending up in
June was retail spending. And it was in
the, you know, things like gas. Some of
that was pricing, but it was really
broad-based other than things like
electronics and furniture, but grocery
spending was up, general merchandise was
up, clothing was up. That's what's
driving the spending. Interestingly,
also services
spending was actually down just a little
bit, down about one/tenth in June, but
what breaking that down, people are
pulling back on discretionary on travel.
And we can get into that because you're
going to want me to square the circle
with Delta.
Well, yes. Can we get there right away?
get there right away. So, we'll get
there right away. So, travel spending,
travel categories like airlines did
decline. But if you delve into what
drives total spending, right? It's the
number of households that are spending.
It's the average transaction size and
it's the number of transactions they're
making a month, right? What we saw when
you break that down, there are certain
households, and we can get into which
ones, lower income households, who are
pulling back completely from making
purchases in travel. If we look at other
categories, discretionary categories
like restaurants on the other hand,
again, same analysis, you're seeing
fewer but some households pull back
completely. So we have fewer households
making a transaction at all, but the
people who are still going out to eat
are going out more often, went out more
often in June and paid more. So you've
got a little bit of a disconnect and
it's kind of a tale of two cities. We've
been talking about the K-shaped economy
and it seems to be just sort of widening
the gap between the halves and the have
nots and we're seeing people who have
the money to spend spend more and the
people who don't uh spend less and less
and I just wonder if this is analogous
to what we've seen over the past few
years or if this is almost an
acceleration of that trend if it feels
unsustainable if you can give us a sense
of historically uh what this trend is
heading toward. So, so there is a
disconnect and and I think the best way
to understand what's happening is to
look at the labor market. The labor
market on its whole has been very
strong. But digging in again by income,
higher income households last month, we
look at the money actually coming into
accounts. That accelerated third month
in a row, it's up just shy of 3%. Lower
income households actually decelerated a
little bit. They're still up, they're
still up 1.6%, but that's down from
1.8%. So you're seeing this this this
difference. That being said, we go back
a year, two years, what was happening,
lower income households were having
doubledigit income gains. That's come
down. Whereas higher income households
is particularly, you know, a year 18
months ago when we saw a lot of tech
layoffs, higher income households had
negative wage growth. Now they're coming
up and then they're also supported by
higher income households having more
invested in in the markets are also
being supported by that. So I think
that's kind of the ex explanation for
why the consumer is behaving the way
that it is. It comes down to the labor
market.
When you say lower income households are
pulling back. Yeah. What's the reasoning
you find behind it? Is it because their
wages are not keeping up with inflation
or is it actually this concern about
policy in Washington tariffs and the
likes? So, so we one of the things we do
at Bank of American Institute is we
don't actually ask people what they
think because we find that when they
tell us what they're doing, it doesn't
necessarily align with what they say.
So, we look at what they are actually
doing. So, I can't tell you why they're
doing it specifically, why they think
they're doing it. But what I but what
what I can tell you is that looking at
the breakdown in where people are
spending non-discretionary
spending items, rents, insurance,
utilities, those are growing faster than
inflation. They're taking up a bigger
piece of people's budget. And now that
wages are growing, they're still
growing, but growing more slowly, not
keeping up. That's that's where I think
the disconnect is.
The refocus on necessities. That's what
it seems to be,
which doesn't speak well to their
ability to withstand any further
increases. But also the idea that higher
inome households are seeing an
acceleration in income. At the same
time, you're seeing a deceleration in
lower income. That is different than
what we saw in the immediate
post-pandemic reality.
The K-shaped economy has been a theme
this morning, hasn't it?
It has. And I just wonder how
sustainable that is. And it is a
political issue as well.
Liz, it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by clinic. Just great to talk
about the data and, you know, not
feelings and all of that stuff. just
hard numbers.
I love what Liz just said there. We look
at what people actually do because we
find that it actually breaks down and
rather than ask them what they why
they're doing it or why they think
they're doing it survey, this is not the
US.
Exactly. We're not I'm saying that
exactly. Thank you.
Coming up on the program, jobless claims
just around a corner. We'll catch up
with Nita Richardson of ADP here to
react to look through the labor market.
The headline number in payroll is pretty
solid just last week. The details as
city pointed out fragile for some of
you. We'll get into that in just a
moment. Equity futures on the S&P 500 so
far this morning just about steady on
the S&P were negative by not even a
tenth of 1%. From New York, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Just got a note from Mass Ker of HSBC
and the title literally is just two
words and it says buy more. That guy is
bullish right now. Constructive on this
equity market. Equity futures at the
moment just about unchanged on the S&P
unchanged through most of this morning
off the back of better than expected
numbers from Delta Airlines. Will the
data this morning speak to that theme of
confidence coming from the seauite at
one of the major airlines in America?
Would you jobless claim number? The
survey was 235 with the number. Here's
Mike McKe. Good morning Mike.
Good morning, John. We're waiting for
the number to drop here. I might warn
that we could see a bit of a decline
because last week was the holiday week,
the July 4th week, and we do. We go down
to 227 from a revised 232. I wouldn't
take uh too much comfort in this in the
sense that, as I mentioned, uh we had
the holiday week, the July 4th holiday,
fewer people able to get to the uh
offices and file. 4-week moving average
235 down from 241 and continuing claims
uh go up 1,965,000
from 1,955,000.
So I think the way you would look at
this is just to say this is more of the
same. We're not seeing any real change
in the labor market that you need to
worry about at this point.
Mike McKe with the latest. Michael, come
back to you in just a moment. I want to
bring in Nita Richardson of ADP. Nita,
welcome to the program first of all and
then we can get into these numbers.
Continuing claims, is it getting harder
to get a job in America and how much
data supports that right now?
Yes. And you can see that continuing
claims are running about 5% higher than
they were last year. And it really begs
a certain kind of question. If you look
at labor force participation rates,
we're a percentage a full percentage
point lower now than we were before the
pandemic. And you know, we have this
unemployment rate that stepped back from
4.2% in May to 4.1% in June. So if fewer
people are either working or looking for
work, why is it harder to get a job? And
I think the answer is is the same when
you look at the markets. We have a very
concentrated labor market which is only
hiring a very specific type of person.
I'm looking right now and I'm glad that
John brought up continuing claims
because continuing claims came in at the
highest level, just grinding to the
highest levels since November of 2021.
And it raises a question of whether
we're seeing breaking points even if the
all-in number will not break. In other
words, are there things that people will
be able to point to that really show
true profound weakness, but on an
overall basis, it isn't going to be
disinflationary. isn't going to create
the backdrop that the Fed might need in
order to cut rates.
That's right. We we're in a labor market
that's I've used the word here before in
stasis. It's not moving much. It's
pretty solid. 4.1% unemployment rate.
You would never argue with that number
in any time period. And yet you see how
concentrated. So most of the jobs that
the BLS reported last month were in
healthcare. About 80% of those jobs. you
add education, that was about 90% of the
private sector jobs that were uh
reported. And so where are the cracks?
Well, the cracks are in white collar
jobs. Uh the cracks are in professional
services, B2B businesses, financial
services. There are places that are not
hiring. And right now we don't know if
it's a demand or a supply issue because
there's also a sense that labor supply
is not being filtered to where the areas
uh that are needed most like uh
specialty trades for example in
construction or nursing and health care.
There are parts of the economy that
desperately needs workers and they're
not being matched right now.
So here's the issue. A lot of people
have been saying that because uh
immigrants haven't been coming in or
because the uh wave of illegal
immigration has been staved off and
there have been deportations that there
is going to be wage inflation in certain
industries that are going to have a
harder time filling those roles. Is
there any evidence that that's the case?
Well, across the board there's wage
inflation. The complexion of the labor
market, and I think this is a little
understood point, um has changed
dramatically since the pandemic. It
ushered in a completely different pay
structure than the one that existed
prior to March of 2020. The composition
of the labor market has shifted. We have
more young workers in the labor market
than we did before. The percentage of
workers 45 and older have have actually
decreased by 2% over the last 5 years.
And the nexus of all this turn from the
great resignation and that supercharged
hiring after the pandemic is a wage
growth that is higher and more
persistently higher at stable levels
than before the pandemic. So just to put
a a number to it before the pandemic you
know this labor market was characterized
by very slow pay growth. We c clocked
that pay growth at at about4%
in the first four months of the pan uh
prior to the pandemic. Now we clock it
at 2 and a.5%. So this is a elevated pay
growth level that is structuring the
labor market and that has all kinds of
implications for the work.
But is it across the se all sectors? To
Lisa's point, the Treasury Secretary
continuously talks about when you close
the border, American wages go up. Is
that true in those sectors that
historically have filled been filled by
immigrants?
Well, that's the thing about economics.
You can't look at one sector and call it
done. You have to look at the filth
through rate through the entire economy.
Does that lower demand? Does that lower
consumption patterns? Does that change
the composition of the workforce? Um
does that force uh firms to hire or uh
raise or lower prices? So, it's hard to
really come out and say um there is one
clear answer to that. You kind of have
to see how the equilibrium shakes out.
But overall, what we what we're tracking
is a higher for longer pay growth that's
much higher than it was before the
pandemic. And it feeds into the idea
that the labor market, though not a
source of inflation, can put a floor on
that inflation and keep it from grow
going as low as it was prior to the
pandemic.
You've been talking about this low churn
dynamic in this labor market
continuously now for the last several
months. And I have to say, Lisa, the
data again this morning speaks to it
both on the hiring side and the firing
side. Limited firings, initial jobless
claims back down to 227. Limited hiring,
continuing claims speak to the idea that
it's difficult to get a job in America
right now.
People aren't budging. People don't want
to leave their jobs because they're
worried about getting a new one and
companies don't want to fire their
workers because they remember what
happened during the pandemic. I'm glad
though that you picked up on continuing
claims because it speaks to the
inability to easily get a job in the
same way that maybe people were able to
a couple years ago.
Mike McKe, I want to come back to you
briefly. Just frame this for us. the
debate not just on inflation but around
the labor market on the FOMC after the
minutes we got in the past 24 hours.
Well, the labor market is the Fed's
primary indicator at the moment of
what's going on with the economy because
they think that it will take a while for
inflation to feed in given the
stretching out of the tariff
impositions. But the labor market will
give them an idea of whether or not
companies are moving forward with cost
containment efforts because they're
anticipating at this point that they are
going to have higher input costs from
tariffs. So, it's worth keeping an eye
on. But the other warning I have to give
here in terms of jobless claims is we're
getting into the season when auto
companies shut down to retool their
plants. Uh in Michigan, we saw almost
9,000 jobless claims filed last week on
an unadjusted basis. Uh that those will
go away in two month two weeks when the
employees go back to work, but it's
going to make it hard to get a clean
reading again on what's going on on the
firing side uh while we go through this
July period.
Mike McKe, thank you, sir. with the
latest on the labor market. The labor
market data right now is not screaming
cut interest rates, which might
disappoint the White House at the
moment, which is pardoning the pressure
on Fed Chair Jay Pow. Tyler Kendall
joins us now for a little bit more.
Tyler, never mind doubling down. I'm not
sure tripling down quite covers it
either. The president keeps pushing.
Yeah, John, he does keep pushing and
he's starting to pull on arguments from
other members of his administration when
it does come to this pressure against
Jerome Powell. Yesterday, he elevated an
accusation from his head of the Federal
Housing Finance Agency, Bill Py, who is
alleging without evidence that Jerome
Powell misled Congress in testimony
about recent renovations to the Fed's
headquarters here in Washington. And
President Trump said if true, then
Powell should resign. We should say that
Jerome Powell has disputed media reports
that the renovations were extravagant.
But just add it to the list from this
White House when it comes to its
criticism of the Fed chair. They've also
recently coalesed around this idea that
the US government is facing mounting
debt service costs because of uh higher
interest rates. And so these are sort of
the latest in terms of the criticism
here as the White House does look
towards what the next future replacement
could be. And our analysts at Bloomberg
Economics say that there are three
likely criteria that could make a
candidate successful in being chosen.
One is loyalty to the Trump
administration. The second is
credibility to the markets. But the
third is something they called
unconventionalism. BV the economic
establishment. John, those are are
analyst words, not mine. But essentially
somebody who's not afraid to buck the
trend here as at the moment the FOMC
remains divided on the impact of tariffs
and the outlook of the economy.
Tyler with the latest from Washington.
Tyler, thank you. Nita Richardson,
Kevin, Kevin, Chris Scott, wild card.
Gonna choose a door.
No,
didn't think so. What's the most
convincing argument right now for lower
rates at the Fed?
uh you know the labor market is holding
steady and so if they want to position
for
uh their projections which is higher
inflation, lower growth, then maybe this
is the time to cut rates. But you know,
I'm not in favor of that argument right
now. I'd like to think of that the
economy actually grows uh stronger than
expected in the second half. So if you
have a pessimistic view of that growth
rate and a pessimistic view of the
inflation rate, you should be cutting
rates now. You've seen how divided they
are in the Federal Reserve. Seems to be
two, more broadly two groups at the
moment. The group that says you can look
through tariff related inflation and a
group that's not so sure. How would you
convince one side versus the other right
now? How you see things playing out?
First, I'd like to make the observation
that dissension is a feature, not a bug
of the FOMC.
We'd all agree it's far better than
group think. That's for sure.
Absolutely. When the direction of travel
is known, the bandwagon is easy to get
onto. But I think that driving that
consensus is going to be a a matter of
like what do you think uh is the Fed's
role? Is the Fed's role to keep pumping
the economy towards a certain growth
rate? Is that like the secondary uh part
of the mandate? I would argue not. It's
really inflation and it's really the
labor market. And um when they are
incompatible that that uh policy
decision, go with inflation, fight it.
And so we'll see how the Fed Fed shakes
out on this. I think there's just so
many directions and so many views. But
the role of the Fed chair, whoever it
is, is to drive that consensus, drive
that dissension into a as much of a
consensus as you can get to. Just the
counterfactual, if the Fed were to cut
rates by 25, 50, 75 basis points, would
that help equalize or even spur some
activity in a static jobs market? I
think it would definitely spur activity
in the markets. So
in the markets the labor market um you
know 75% roughly of the employers in
America uh excuse me employees of
America work for firms with uh under 250
employees. These are small firms. They
are dependent on loans, small business
loans. So at the margin, yes, a basis
cut uh of that magnitude would probably
help them secure some capital at lower
rates. it may translate into hiring that
is solid, but what would do better than
that for Main Street is keeping
inflation under control. So, it really
is a trade-off. Um, if you really think
that inflation is going back down to the
levels that we saw before the pandemic,
cut away. But if there is some doubt in
your mind, it's not good for Main Street
to have the spectre of inflation pushing
their input prices higher.
Anita, before you go, just a final
question on the Federal Reserve. What
you said about driving consensus I think
is important. How difficult is it to do
that when there's a changing of the
guard particularly in this environment?
I think it's going to be a challenge. I
mean it's a challenge already. It it's
just harder. The the complexity of that
decision has been amplified but um
mainly because the structure of the
global economy is changing in real time.
So it's really hard to drive a consensus
when there's really no stability in the
outcomes and not just because of
tariffs, because of demographics,
because of AI and its and technologies
uh impact on the workforce. There's all
of these mega trends affecting the
global economy and you're the person in
the room who's supposed to like cut
through all that noise into a 25 basis
point cut or not. It's a hard job.
It's a complex time, that's for sure.
Nita, it's good to see you. Appreciate
your time. Thank you. Neil richer than
there of ADP. Let's keep an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Back with us, here's
Lizzie Burden. Hey, Lizzie.
Hey, John. Starting with the latest
data. Weekly jobless claims coming in
below expectations once again at 227,000
for the week that ended July 5th. The
data marking the fourth straight week of
declining claims to reach the lowest
levels in 2 months. Continuing claims
though rose to 1.97 million over the
week, still at the highest since late
2021.
And Meta poached the head of Apple, its
AI models team, sources telling us here
at Bloomberg that he was lured over with
a pay package worth over $200 million
that will be stretched over several
years. The compensation is in line with
other major hires for Meta's new super
intelligence team, which is focused on
building AI systems that can complete
tasks as well as or better than humans.
And Goldman Sachs is reportedly planning
to ask its junior bankers to confirm
their loyalty on a regular basis in a
bid to limit talent poaching. Bloomberg
sources say that the bank will ask new
analysts to certify every 3 months that
they haven't lined up jobs elsewhere.
The move is meant to get ahead of
private equity firms signing analysts
early in their on the job training. And
that's your Bloomberbo brief, John.
Lizzie, thank you.
Provide the conditions where they don't
want to leave.
Like that's the job as the employer.
Like, you know, we've been so harsh on
on this generation and how much they
need and how much looking after they
need.
I have. So have I.
But on this occasion, give me a break.
Pledge allegiance to the flag every time
you turn up for work. What? Tell me that
you're insecure without saying out loud.
I'm insecure. Just say, "Promise you're
not going to take them up on their
offers that are so good." Come on,
please don't.
Give me a break. Up next on the program,
setting you up for the day ahead. Plus,
Oxana Arnoff of JP Morgan Asset
Management on why the Fed is doing the
right thing.
[Music]
in this administration. I think what we
saw several months ago, now it's paused
again happily, uh, is the kind of
broad-based industrial policy that I
think ultimately will harm the American
economy, will harm American consumers,
be tough on China, be tough on trade
abusers, but have the objective of
ultimately lowering uh trade barriers,
and that's how America wins and
prospers. That was the former US Vice
President Mike Pence joining the program
earlier on this morning. Critical of
certain dimensions of the trade policy
of this administration, but I have to
say very constructive on many dimensions
of foreign policy.
Definitely when it comes to foreign
policy, especially he has been welcoming
what the Trump administration did in
terms of going after Iran's nuclear
facilities and this welcome reversal
really we've seen out of the
administration according to Mike Pence
when it comes to how he is talking about
Putin and the sanctions bill that's
walking it working its way through
Congress. on trade though he is a free
trader but he's not a purist in the
sense that he doesn't think you should
rally the rest of the world and go after
one place and that's China.
If you are just tuning in, welcome to
the program. Equity futures doing okay
so far this morning. Negative by about a
tenth of 1%. Similar move on the NASDAQ.
No drama here. Jobless claims are okay.
Continuing claims still a bit of a
concern. It's harder to get a job in the
United States of America. As we count
you down to the opening bell, some
things to watch for in our trading diary
on Tuesday. Looking ahead to next week,
bank earnings kicking off with JP Morgan
City, Wells Fargo, plus CPI. On
Wednesday, earnings from BFA, Goldman,
Morgan Stanley, and we get some PPI
data. Thursday, another round of jobless
claims, plus retail sales data. And
Friday, UMIC consumer sentiment. Before
we get to all of that, few more days to
go. Plus, this looking ahead to a $22
billion sale of 30-year bonds after
strong demand for the 10-year note
triggered a rally. Alexander Aronov of
JP Morgan writing at some point the
realization that 5% is a fair value
clearing level for the 10-year will
finally start to creep in causing all
kinds of price disruptions. Oxana joins
us now for more. Oxana, good morning.
Good morning.
That's going to worry a lot of people
that quickly got comfortable with
yesterday's auction. What is there to
worry about? Why that move back to five?
So, we have to kind of zoom out a little
bit and realize that in spite of all the
talk um around cutting rates and why it
makes sense to cutting rates and this
administration stomping its feet and
demanding lower rates, like the reality
is that we've seen this movie before. Um
the Fed did start to cut rates and did
so very aggressively around this time
last year, a little bit later, and we
saw the long and move up and the 30-year
continues to be stuck around that five
year uh 5% level. And currently, we have
a stock market that's surging. We have
crypto at alltime highs. We have a jobs
uh backdrop that's still very
constructive at 4.1%.
There is really no impetus for the Fed
to be any more aggressive here. But even
more importantly, and this is where I
disagree with the prior speaker and a
lot of what's out there currently, it's
irrelevant what they do at the front end
because they do not control, you know.
So if we are talking about lower
borrowing costs for small businesses or
lower mortgage rates for borrowers who
want to buy homes that is not going to
necessarily flow out of a you know lower
Fed funds rate which raises this issue
of if they lower rates on the front end
how much will that actually generate
growth and inflation that will cause the
long end to go up to that five 6% rate
that's ultimately the question. Why
would it then affect the long end so
much if it didn't have the stimulative
effect in the short term? So we saw um
kind of an interesting combination of
factors when the Fed started hiking
right under any normal quote unquote
circumstances that would have been a
restrictive environment um with the
exception that we had tremendous fiscal
loosening that essentially blunted the
effect of monetary policy I think and
we're continuing to see that you know
financial conditions are quite um
constructive quite loose once again we
have the big beautiful bill contributing
to an already you know around a $2
trillion deficit it going to go up to
about 2.5 trillion. Right? So, um the
the all of these things are inflationary
and from a technical standpoint there is
more and more issuance that the Fed that
the Treasury needs to finance and that
is not a constructive technical backdrop
for the long end. So, we're talking
about, you know, the macro backdrop,
which is, you know, tariffs and um lower
labor supply and immigration policy and
kind of defense spending and all these
sort of non-discretionary spending
components of the of the budget that are
going to continue to move up and
contribute to the inflationary backdrop,
which by the way, inflation has
completely stalled out, right? And you
move down and it has completely stalled
out. And in addition to all that macro
stuff, we're also talking about the
technicals which are just going to
continue to be not constructive for the
long end to meaningfully move lower here
irrespective of you know how many times
this administration stomps its feet.
How how do you put this all together in
the sense that 10 out of the 19
officials according to the minutes think
that we're going to get two cuts this
year and you think actually what the Fed
is doing is correct right now?
Absolutely. Well, I uh this is no
different from any other year when we
had, you know, seven, eight, six, five,
you name it, cuts baked in and then
ultimately ended up with a couple um
albeit aggressive ones last year. I
think this will be no different. We're
going to continue to see um even the Fed
itself right when in the last kind of
survey when uh Fed U members were
surveyed in terms of where do they think
risks are every one of them said that
inflation risks are skewed to the
upside. Um, and many said that, you
know, the labor picture, the risks there
are possibly skewed to the downside. And
so far, the labor data has been okay.
And by the way, I would argue that as
population declines, we may not need the
kind of blockbuster, you know, jobs
numbers we've seen in the past to
continue um to have a very constructive
labor market.
You said that if yields go back up to
that 5% level, and I'm talking about
10-year yields, it will pressure all
sorts of other assets. Are you talking
about credit at a time when a lot of
people have been saying that it's a
really constructive outlook even at
these tight spreads particularly below
investment grade credit? Right. So
investment grade credit um has two
things going for it. Number one,
fundamentals there are, you know, as
constructive as they've been um possibly
ever. Yes, there's been some perhaps
overspend on buybacks, but generally
those balance sheets are good and they
also have the benefit of receiving
support from the Fed as major employers
of Americans. Right? These are blue chip
companies and yes the the government and
the Fed are going to come to their
rescue if if that needs to be the case.
Below investment grade credit is in a
different situation because these are
not cash rflow companies and I know that
generally the pitch there is well
defaults have been very low. The uh
makeup of the high yield space is now
higher quality. Well let's really
dissect that. So, um, the 12-month
trailing default yield for high yield is
1.3% something like that. If you add to
that distressed exchanges, that number
nearly doubles to around 4 and a half to
um 5%. If you add to that the pick
activity that we've seen, which is
paying kinds, which is essentially, you
know, I can't pay you back in cash, so
here's more debt. Yeah. Right. Then we
get to an even higher level. So, in
essence, if we were to really take stock
of all the activity related to I don't
have the money to pay you back, we're
ending up with a 5%ish type um default
level um as opposed to the one handle
that's being reported.
Oxana, appreciate your time.
Thank you.
It's good to see you. Thank you. Thank
you very much. You're scaring us though.
Don't want 5%. Want nothing to do with
that. Oxana Aronov of JP Morgan. How
about more asset management from New
York? This is Bloomberg.